**ID:** 0971

**Genre:** Myths

**CTH:** 325 - Der Mythos vom Verschwinden und der Wiederkehr des Wettergottes (mugawar)

**Publication:** KUB 36.71+

**Lines:** Rs. iv 4'-5'

**Paragraph:** 31''''

**Wordform:** šāwar

**Semantics:** anger

**Emotional domain:** ANGER

**Lemma:** šāe-

## Context

paiddu dIM-naš karpiš kardimiyaz wašdul šāwar "“The weather god's anger, wrath, iniquity (and) resentment shall go!"

## Syllabic context

[ ... ka]r-pí-iš kar-d[i-mi-ya-az ... ][ ... ]
pár-n[a-an-za-at ... ]
[ ... ]
lu-ut-ta-[an-za-at ... ]
[ ... ]
KÁ-at K[I?.MIN]
[ ... ]
[ ... ]
[ ... ] GIŠKIRI6 ⌈GIŠ!?⌉T[IR-ni ... ]
[ ... ] ¬¬¬

## Master context

[paiddu dIM-naš ka]rpiš kard[imiyaz wašdul šāwar]
par[nanz=a]t tarnau
ištarn[iyaš=at annašnanza] ⌈tarnau⌉
lutta[nz]=at tarnau w[awarkima]
ištarn[iyaš=at ḫ]ilaš tarnau
KÁ=at K[I.MIN?]
[ḫilamnanz=at tarnau]
KASKAL LUGAL[=at tarn]a[u?]
[m]iya[nti=at A.ŠÀ-ni] GIŠKIRI6 GIŠTIR-ni [lē paizzi]
[ta]kn[aš=at dUTU-aš KASKAL-an paiddu]

## Original translation

„[Des Wettergottes W]ut, Zo[rn, Frevel] (und) [Groll soll gehen!]
Das Ha[us] soll [s]ie loslassen!
Das inn[ere ] soll [sie] loslassen!
Das Fenst[er] soll sie loslassen, das S[charnier]!
Der inn[ere H]of soll [sie] loslassen!
Die Tür (soll) sie ge[nauso] (loslassen)!
[Der Torbau soll sie loslassen]!
Der Weg des Königs [soll sie loslass]en!
[Auf das fr]uchtrag[ende Feld], in den Garten (und) den Wald [sollen sie nicht gehen]!
[Sie sollen den Weg der Sonnengöttin der E]r[de gehen!]“

## English translation

"The weather god's fury, wrath, iniquity (and) resentment shall go! The house shall let them go! The inner shall let them go! The window shall let them go, the hinge! The inner court shall let them go! The door (shall let them go) in the same way! The gate shall let them go! The king's path shall let them go! They shall not go into the fruit-bearing field, into the garden (and) the forest! They shall follow the path of the sun goddess of the earthgo!”

## Links

- [Textcorpora](https://www.hethport.uni-wuerzburg.de/txhet_myth/partitur.php?xst=CTH%20325&prgr=%C2%A7%2031%27%27%27%27%27&lg=DE&ed=E.%20Rieken%20et%20al.)
