**ID:** 1218

**Genre:** Myths

**CTH:** 345.I.1 – Das Lied von Ullikummi: hethitische Version – Erste Tafel

**Publication:** KUB 33.102+ (dubl. KUB 33.98+)

**Lines:** Vs. ii 9

**Paragraph:** 5'

**Wordform:** katkattimaš

**Semantics:** tremble

**Emotional domain:** FEAR

**Lemma:** katkatta-/katkattiya-

**Full location:** KUB 36.8 (dubl. KUB 33.102) Vs. ii 5-8

## Context

nu=wa É-er katkattimaš ēpta SAG.GÉME.ARAD.MEŠ=ya naḫšaraza ēpta "Quake gripped the house, and fear seized the servants"

## Full context

nu i-it A-NA dKu-mar-bi me-mi
 ku-wa-at-wa É-ri me-na-aḫ-ḫa-an-da TUKU.TUKU-an-za ú-et
 nu-wa É-er kat-kat-ti-ma-aš e-ep-ta
 SAG.GÉME.ARA[DMEŠ-ya] na-aḫ-ša-ra-za e-ep-ta

## Translation

Go (and) say to Kumarbi:
 'Why did he come angrily to (my) house,
 An earthquake seized the house,
 and fear seized the servants.

## Syllabic context

[ ... ] ⌈INIM⌉MEŠ-ar a-ru-ni EGIR-pa [ ... d]a-a-iš
EN-YA-mu-kán ku-it [ ... ]-at
nu-za-kán a-ru-na-an ta-pu-ša [ ... ]
[ ... ]-kán ša-[k]u-wa-ya-nu-un
[dk]u-mar-bi-iš DINGIRMEŠ-aš ad-da-aš e-eš-zi ¬¬¬
[ ... dim-pa-l]u-ri-ya-aš INIMMEŠ-ar IŠ-ME
[ ... dim-pa-lu-ri-y]a EGIR-pa me-mi-iš-ki-u-wa-an da-iš
[ ... INIMMEŠ-a]r-ta ku-i-e [ ... ]
[ ... ] GEŠTU-an pa-ra-a [ ... ]
(Kolon fehlt in A)
[ ... ke]-⌈e?⌉ da-aš-ša-u-wa [ ... ]
[ ... ] me-mi
[ ... ] ⌈dku-mar-bi-in⌉ [ ... ]
[ ... ]x-ya pí-an EGIR-pa [ ... ]
[ ... ]x-ir na-aḫ-ša-ra-za [ ... ]
[am-m]u-uk-ka4-wa-kán [ ... ]
[ ... ]x-nu-ut
[ ... n]u-ut
[ ... ]x e-ep-pé-er [ ... GIŠ d]⌈INANNAḪI⌉.A [ ... ]
[ ... ]x-uš tu-uk [ ... ]
[ ... a]n-da [ ... ]
[ ... ]x-⌈a⌉-x-an
[_   _   _ di]m-pa-al-lu-ri-iš pé-ra-an ⌈i-ya-at-ta-at⌉
(Kolon fehlt in B.)
(Kolon fehlt in B.)
[na-aš-ká]n a!-⌈ru-na-aš⌉ É-ri an-da p[a-i]t ¬¬¬

## Master context

nu dimpaluri[š] INIMMEŠ-ar aruni EGIR-pa memiškiuw[an] dāiš
EN-YA=mu=kan kwit [ ... ]-at
nu=za=kan arunan tapuša [ ... ]
[ ... ]=kan ša[k]uwayanun
dkumarbiš=wa=kan [GIŠŠ]Ú.A-ŠU! ēšzi DINGIRMEŠ-aš addaš
[mān arunaš dimpal]uriyaš INIMMEŠ-ar IŠME
nu arunaš ANA dim[pal]uri EGIR-pa memiškiuwan dāiš
[dimpaluri ... INIMMEŠ-a]r=ta kwie [memiškemi]
[ ... ] GEŠTU-an parā [ ... ]
dimpaluri kē=mu uddār ištamaš
n=at īt ANA dkumarbi peran daššanut
nu īt ANA dkumarbi memi
kuwat=wa É-ri menaḫḫanda ka[rtimmiy]auwanza wet
nu=wa É-er katkattimaš ēpta
SAG.GÉME.ARADMEŠ=ya naḫšaraza ēpta
[amm]ukk=a=wa=kan [ ... ]
tuk=wa IGI-anda Vs. II 9 GIŠERIN-pi karū duwarnan
TU7ḪI.A=ya=tta menaḫḫanda karū zanuwan
tuk=ma=wa IGI-anda UDKAM-ti GE6KAM-ti=ya LÚ.MEŠNAR=ma=wa! GIŠ dINANNAḪI.A menaḫḫanda tiššan ḫarkanzi
šarā tīya
nu INA É-YA arḫa eḫu
n=aš šarā tīyat dkumarbiš
nu=šši dimpaluriš peran iyattari
dkumarbiš=ma [IŠTU] ⌈É-ŠU⌉ iyattari
n=aš iyanniya[t] dkumarbiš
n=aš=kan arunaš É-ri anda pait

## Original translation

Impaluri begann, die Worte dem Meer wieder zu sag[en]:
„Was mein Herr mir [ ...]te,
[ich ging] zur Seite des Meeres.
Ich s[ch]aute [ ... ].
Kumarbi sitzt auf seinem [Th]ron, der Vater der Götter.“
[Als das Meer] des [Impal]uri Worte gehört hatte,
begann das Meer dem Im[pa]luri zu antworten:
[„, ... die Wort]e, die ich dir sage,
Text A: [halte ihnen] das Ohr ge[neigt!]
Text B/C: Impaluri, höre meine Worte an.
Geh (und) richte sie Kumarbi aus.
Geh (und) sprich zu Kumarbi:
‚Warum kam er zü[rne]nd vor (mein) Haus,
Beben ergriff das Haus,
und Furcht ergriff das Gesinde.
Und [ic]h [ ... ]
Für dich (ist) schon Zeder gebrochen,
und für dich (sind) schon Suppen gekocht.
Für dich aber halten Tag und Nacht die Sänger die Leiern bereit.
Steh auf,
und komm fort in mein Haus!‘“
Er stand auf, der Kumarbi,
und ihm voran geht Impaluri.
Kumarbi aber geht [aus] seinem Haus,
und er zo[g] los, der Kumar[bi].
Er g[in]g in das Haus des Meeres.

## English translation

Impaluri began to say the words to the sea again:
"What my Lord me [...] te,
[I went] to the side of the sea.
I s [ch] aute [...].
Kumarbi sits on his [Th] Ron, the father of the gods. "
[When the sea had heard of the [impal] uri words,
the sea began to answer in the [pa] luri:
[", ... the word] e that I tell you,
Text A: [Keep you] your ears!]
Text B/C: Impaluri, listen to my words.
Go (and) align them Kumarbi.
Go (and) speak to Kumarbi:
'Why did he appear to be (my) house,
The house seized
And fear took the servant.
And [ic] h [...]
For you (is) already broken cedar,
And soups are already cooked for you.
For you, however, the singers have the lodges ready day and night.
Stand up,
And get away in my house! '"
He got up, the Kumarbi,
And Impaluri is going ahead.
Kumarbi, however, [out] his house,
And he zo [g], the kumar [bi].
He g [in] g into the house of the sea.

## Links

- [Textcorpora](https://www.hethport.uni-wuerzburg.de/txhet_myth/partitur.php?xst=CTH%20345.I.1&prgr=%C2%A7%205%27&lg=DE&ed=E.%20Rieken%20et%20al.)
