**ID:** 0040

**Genre:** Gebete

**CTH:** 373 - Kantuzzilis Gebet an den Sonnengott

**Publication:** KUB 30.10

**Lines:** Vs. 2'

**Paragraph:** 1'

**Wordform:** šāet

**Semantics:** anger

**Emotional domain:** ANGER

**Lemma:** šāe-

**Full location:** KUB 30.10 Vs. 1'-5'

## Context

kwiš=še=ššan DINGIR-uš ḫatuggā-… -a šāet "The God who was terribly angry  ...  with him"

## Full context

ku-i[š-še-e]š-ša-an DINGIR-⌈uš?⌉ ḫa-⌈tu-ug-ga-a?⌉-[ _ ] x x-⌈a?⌉ ša-a-⌈et⌉
 n[u-za-kán … ] da-m[a-a]t-ta na-iš
 nu A-NA mkán-li i-ya-u-wa Ú-UL pa-⌈a-i⌉
 ⌈nu-uš⌉-ša-an DINGIR-u[š … ] ma-a-n[a-aš t]ák-ni-i
 zi-ga dUTU-uš kat-ti-ši pa-i-ši
 nu i-it a-pé-da-ni A-NA DINGIR-YA ⌈te-e-et⌉
 n[u-uš-ši] ŠA m⌈kán⌉-tu-zi-li ut-ta-a-ar-⌈še⌉-et a-ap-pa tar-ku-mi-ya-i¬¬¬

## Translation

The God who was terribly angry with him,
 (he) has turned [ his eyes to the side ] somewhere else.
 He does not hand over the action to Kantuzili .
 [Whether] that God (is) in heaven, or that he (is) in the earth,
 But YOU, sun god, go to him.
 Go (and) speak to this my God!
 Transmit [to him] his, Kantuzili's, words!

## Syllabic context

n[u ... ]x[ ... ]x[…]
ku-i[š-še-e]š-ša-an DINGIR-⌈uš?⌉ ḫa-⌈tu-ug-ga-a?⌉-[ _]x x-⌈a?⌉ ša-a-⌈et⌉
n[u-za-kán …] da-m[a-a]t-ta na-iš
nu A-NA mkán-li i-ya-u-wa Ú-UL pa-⌈a-i⌉
⌈nu-uš⌉-ša-an DINGIR-u[š …] ma-a-n[a-aš t]ák-ni-i
zi-ga dUTU-uš kat-ti-ši pa-i-ši
nu i-it a-pé-da-ni A-NA DINGIR-YA ⌈te-e-et⌉
n[u-uš-ši] ŠA m⌈kán⌉-tu-zi-li ut-ta-a-ar-⌈še⌉-et a-ap-pa tar-ku-mi-ya-i¬¬¬

## Master context

n[u ... ]
kwi[š=še]=ššan DINGIR-uš ḫatuggā-[ … ]-a šāet
n[u=z(a)=kan …] dam[a]tta naiš
nu ANA mkan(tuzi)li iyauwa UL pāi
nu=ššan DINGIR-u[š …] mān=[aš t]aknī
zig=a dUTU-uš katti=ši paiši
nu īt apedani ANA DINGIR-YA tēt
n[u=šši] ŠA mkantuzili uttār=šet āppa tarkumiyai

## Original translation

U[nd ... ].
D[er] Gott, der [ihm] schrecklich [ ... ] zürnte,
(er) hat [] woan[d]ershin gewendet.
Dem Kantuzili (über)gibt er nicht das Handeln.
[Sei es], dass [jener] Gott (sich) [im Himmel] (befindet), oder dass er (sich) in der [E]rde (befindet),
DU aber, Sonnengott, gehst zu ihm.
Geh (und) sprich zu diesem meinem Gott!
Übermittle [ihm] seine, des Kantuzili, Worte!

## English translation

And ... .The God who was terribly angry with him has turned elsewhere.He does not hand over the action to the Kantuzili.Be it that that God (is) in heaven or that he (is) in the earth, but YOU, Sun God, go to him.Go (and) speak to this my God!Convey to him his, the Kantuzili, words!

## Links

- [Textcorpora](https://www.hethport.uni-wuerzburg.de/txhet_gebet/partitur.php?xst=CTH%20373&prgr=%C2%A7%201%27&lg=DE&ed=E.%20Rieken%20et%20al.)
- [TLGdig](https://www.hethport.uni-wuerzburg.de/TLHdig/tlh_xtx.php?d=KUB%2030.10)
