**ID:** 0177

**Genre:** Gebete

**CTH:** 386.7 - Gebet an den Wettergott von Nerik

**Publication:** KUB 57.112

**Lines:** Rs. 1-4

**Paragraph:** 2'

**Wordform:** naḫšarnuanteš

**Semantics:** fear

**Emotional domain:** FEAR

**Lemma:** naḫḫ-

**Full location:** KUB 57.112 Rs. 1-6

## Context

URUneriqaš=z(a) d10-ni  ... -punāš AN-aš d10-aš ḪUR.SAG.MEŠ  ...  naḫšarnuanteš  ...  alalanimenzi "The weather god of Nerik  ... - is joined by the weather god of Zahapuna, the weather god of the sky, the mountains  ... , which put fear in  ... , the alalanimi- (Nom. Pl .)"

## Full context

URUNe-ri-qa-aš-za d10-ni [ ... ]-pu-na-a-aš AN-aš d10-aš ḪUR.SAGMEŠ [ ... ] na-aḫ-šar-nu-an-te-eš [ ... ]-x a-la-la-ni-me-en-zi
 tu-uk ak?-[ ... ] [ ... ]-x-at
 ne-pí-ša-aš d10-an [ ... ]
 [ ... ]-x TI-tar pí-an-du
 KUR-e-aš-ma a-aš-šu SUM-[ ... ] ===

## Translation

The weather god of Nerik [ ... ]-en joins with the weather god [of Zaha]puna, the weather god of the sky, the mountains [ ... ], the fearful [ ... ], the alalanimi - (Nom. Pl.).
 YOU [ ... ].
 The weather god of heaven [ ... ]
 They should [...] give life!
 They should give good things to the countries

## Syllabic context

[ ... ]-⌈e⌉-ni
URUne-ri-qa-aš-za d10-ni [ ... ]-pu-na-a-aš AN-aš d10-aš ḪUR.SAGMEŠ [ ... ] na-aḫ-šar-nu-an-te-eš [ ... ]-x a-la-la-ni-me-en-zi
tu-uk ak?-[ ... ][ ... ]-x-at
ne-pí-ša-aš d10-an [ ... ]
[ ... ]-x TI-tar pí-an-du
KUR-e-aš-ma a-aš-šu SUM-[ ... ] ===

## Master context

[ ... ]-eni
URUneriqaš=z(a) d10-ni [ ... ]-punāš AN-aš d10-aš ḪUR.SAGMEŠ [ ... ] naḫšarnuanteš [ ... ] alalanimenzi
tuk ak-[ ... ]-at
nepišaš d10-an [ ... ]
[ ... ] TI-tar piandu
KUR-eaš=ma āššu SUM-[ ... ]

## Original translation

[  ]-en wir.
Dem Wettergott von Nerik [ ... ]-en sich der Wettergott [von Zaha]puna, der Wettergott des Himmel, die Berge [ ... ], die in Furcht versetzten [ ... ], die - (Nom. Pl.).
DIR/DICH [ ... ].
Den Wettergott des Himmels [ ... ]
Sie sollen [ ... ] Leben geben!
Den Ländern aber [] Gut(es) geben!

## English translation

[] -en we.
The weather god of Nerik [...] -en is the weather god [from Zaha] Puna, the weather god of heaven, the mountains [...], which in fear [...], the - (nom. Pl.).
You/you [...].
The weather god of the sky [...]
You should give life [...]!
But give the countries [] good (ES)!

## Links

- [Textcorpora](https://www.hethport.uni-wuerzburg.de/txhet_gebet/partitur.php?xst=CTH%20386.7&prgr=%C2%A7%202%27&lg=DE&ed=E.%20Rieken%20et%20al.)
