# 0231 · FEAR · ḫatuk- — KUB 30.10 — Vs. 2'

| Field | Value |
|---|---|
| ID | 0231 |
| Genre | Gebete |
| CTH | 373 - Kantuzzilis Gebet an den Sonnengott |
| Publication | KUB 30.10 |
| Lines | Vs. 2' |
| Paragraph | 1' |
| Wordform | ḫatuggā- |
| Semantics | terror |
| Emotional Domain | FEAR |
| Lemma | ḫatuk- |

## Context

kwiš=še=ššan DINGIR-uš ḫatuggā- … -a šāet "The God who was terribly angry  ...  with him"

## Full Location

KUB 30.10 Vs. 1'-5'

## Full Context

ku-i[š-še-e]š-ša-an DINGIR-⌈uš?⌉ ḫa-⌈tu-ug-ga-a?⌉-[ _ ] x x-⌈a?⌉ ša-a-⌈et⌉
 n[u-za-kán … ] da-m[a-a]t-ta na-iš
 nu A-NA mkán-li i-ya-u-wa Ú-UL pa-⌈a-i⌉
 ⌈nu-uš⌉-ša-an DINGIR-u[š … ] ma-a-n[a-aš t]ák-ni-i
 zi-ga dUTU-uš kat-ti-ši pa-i-ši
 nu i-it a-pé-da-ni A-NA DINGIR-YA ⌈te-e-et⌉
 n[u-uš-ši] ŠA m⌈kán⌉-tu-zi-li ut-ta-a-ar-⌈še⌉-et a-ap-pa tar-ku-mi-ya-i¬¬¬

## Translation

The God who was terribly angry with him,
 (he) has turned [ his eyes to the side ] somewhere else. 
 He does not hand over the action to Kantuzili .
 [Whether] that God (is) in heaven, or that he (is) in the earth,
 But YOU, sun god, go to him.
 Go (and) speak to this my God!
 Transmit [to him] his, Kantuzili's, words!

## Syllabic Context

n[u ... ]x[ ... ]x[…]
ku-i[š-še-e]š-ša-an DINGIR-⌈uš?⌉ ḫa-⌈tu-ug-ga-a?⌉-[ _]x x-⌈a?⌉ ša-a-⌈et⌉
n[u-za-kán …] da-m[a-a]t-ta na-iš
nu A-NA mkán-li i-ya-u-wa Ú-UL pa-⌈a-i⌉
⌈nu-uš⌉-ša-an DINGIR-u[š …] ma-a-n[a-aš t]ák-ni-i
zi-ga dUTU-uš kat-ti-ši pa-i-ši
nu i-it a-pé-da-ni A-NA DINGIR-YA ⌈te-e-et⌉
n[u-uš-ši] ŠA m⌈kán⌉-tu-zi-li ut-ta-a-ar-⌈še⌉-et a-ap-pa tar-ku-mi-ya-i¬¬¬

## Master Context

n[u ... ]
kwi[š=še]=ššan DINGIR-uš ḫatuggā-[ … ]-a šāet
n[u=z(a)=kan …] dam[a]tta naiš
nu ANA mkan(tuzi)li iyauwa UL pāi
nu=ššan DINGIR-u[š …] mān=[aš t]aknī
zig=a dUTU-uš katti=ši paiši
nu īt apedani ANA DINGIR-YA tēt
n[u=šši] ŠA mkantuzili uttār=šet āppa tarkumiyai

## Original Translation

U[nd ... ].
D[er] Gott, der [ihm] schrecklich [ ... ] zürnte,
(er) hat [] woan[d]ershin gewendet.
Dem Kantuzili (über)gibt er nicht das Handeln.
[Sei es], dass [jener] Gott (sich) [im Himmel] (befindet), oder dass er (sich) in der [E]rde (befindet),
DU aber, Sonnengott, gehst zu ihm.
Geh (und) sprich zu diesem meinem Gott!
Übermittle [ihm] seine, des Kantuzili, Worte!

## English Translation

And ... ].
D [he] God, who [...] angry [...],
(he) turned [] Woan [d].
He does not give the cantuzili (about).
[Be it] that [that] God (himself) [in heaven] (is) or that he (himself) in the [e] rde (is),
But you, sun god, go to him.
Go (and) speak to this to my god!
Transfer his, the cantuzili, words!

## Links

- [Textcorpora](https://www.hethport.uni-wuerzburg.de/txhet_gebet/partitur.php?xst=CTH%20373&prgr=%C2%A7%201%27&lg=DE&ed=E.%20Rieken%20et%20al.)
