# 0205 · FEAR · naḫḫ- — KBo 55.27 — 5'

| Field | Value |
|---|---|
| ID | 0205 |
| Genre | Gebete |
| CTH | 389.2 - Fragmente der Gebete |
| Publication | KBo 55.27 |
| Lines | 5' |
| Paragraph | 2 |
| Wordform | naḫḫanz(a) |
| Semantics | respect |
| Emotional Domain | FEAR |
| Lemma | naḫḫ- |

## Context

ANA DINGIR.MEŠ naḫḫanz(a) ūk "I am reverent towards the gods"

## Full Location

KBo 55.27 6'-12’

## Full Context

[k]u-wa-at-kán DINGIRMEŠ-iš LUGAL[(-uš) ... ]
 ta-ri-ya-an-za-aš-⌈(mi)⌉-iš ú-u[(k)]
 [( GIŠk)at-t(a-lu)-uz-zi ... ] ] kar-pa-an ḫar-mi
 GIŠiš-ḫa-u-w[(a-ar-ša-mi-i)t ... ] ú-uk ḫar-mi
 mé-ma-al-ša-mi-i[t (iš-pa-an-t)u-uz-zi- ... ] an-ni-iš-⌈ke⌉-mi
 A-NA DINGIRMEŠ ⌈(na)⌉-[(aḫ-ḫa-a-an-za ú-u)k ... ]
 ⌈ta-ri-ya-an⌉-za ú-uk
 nu me-ma-a[l ... ] ⌈iš⌉-pa-an-tu-uz-zi-aš ta-ri-y[a-an-za ... ]

## Translation

[W]hy the gods (and?) the king [ ... ]
 I (am) your exhausted (human).
 I lifted up the lintel...
 I observe your ishawawar [ ... ].
 I am (just) preparing your porridge (and) [ your ] cast offering ...
 I [am] reverent towards the gods.
 I am exhausted.
 I am exhausted as regards the groats, the [...] bread (and) the offerings.

## Syllabic Context

[k]u-wa-at-⌈kán⌉ DINGIRMEŠ-eš LUGA[L-uš ... ]
ta-ri-ya-an-za-aš-⌈mi⌉-iš ú-u[k]
[…] kar-pa-an ḫar-mi
GIŠiš-ḫa-u-w[a-ar-ša-mi-it ... ] ú-uk ḫar-mi
mé-ma-al-ša-mi-i[t ... ] an-ni-iš-⌈ke⌉-mi
A-NA DINGIRMEŠ ⌈na⌉-[aḫ-ḫa-an-za ... ]
⌈ta-ri-ya-an⌉-za ú-uk
nu me-ma-a[l ... ] ⌈iš⌉-pa-an-tu-uz-zi-aš ta-ri-y[a-an-za ... ] ¬¬¬

## Master Context

[k]uwat=kan DINGIRMEŠ-eš LUGA[L-uš ... ]
tariyanz(a)=šmiš ūk
GIŠk[att]alu[zzi ... ] karpan ḫarmi
GIŠišḫauwar=š(a)mi[t ... ] ūk ḫarmi
memal=š(a)mit išpant[uzzi- ... ] anniškemi
ANA DINGIRMEŠ naḫḫanz(a) ū[k]
tariyanz(a) ūk
nu memal NINDA[ ... ] išpantuzziyaš tariy[anz(a)] ūk

## Original Translation

[W]arum die Götter (und?) der König [ ... ]
ICH (bin) euer erschöpfter (Mensch).
Ich habe den T[ü]rst[urz ... ] hochgehoben.
ICH halte eue[r]  [ ... ].
Eure Grütze (und) [] Gusso[pfer ... ] bereite ich (gerade).
Ehrfürchtig den Göttern (gegenüber) (bin) I[CH].
Erschöpft (bin) ICH.
Hinsichtlich der Grütze, des [ ... ]-Brotes (und) der Gussopfer erschö[pft] (bin) ICH.

## English Translation

[W] Arum the gods (and?) The king [...]
I (am) your exhausted (human).
I lifted the T [ü] RST [Urz ...].
I hold your [r] [...].
Your groats (and) [] Gusso [horse ...] I prepare (straight).
Awesome to the gods (opposite) (bin) i [ch].
I am exhausted.
With regard to the groats, the [...] bread (and) the cast victim exhaust [pft] (bin).

## Links

- [Textcorpora](https://www.hethport.uni-wuerzburg.de/txhet_gebet/partitur.php?xst=CTH%20389.2&prgr=%C2%A7%202&lg=DE&ed=E.%20Rieken%20et%20al.)
