**ID:** 0206

**Genre:** Gebete

**CTH:** 389.2 - Fragmente der Gebete

**Publication:** KUB 36.91

**Lines:** Vs. 7'

**Paragraph:** 7'

**Wordform:** naḫḫanz(a)

**Semantics:** respect

**Emotional domain:** FEAR

**Lemma:** naḫḫ-

**Full location:** KUB 36.91 Vs. 5'-9’ (dubl. KUB 43.68+)

## Context

n=aš DINGIR.MEŠ-aš UL naḫḫanz(a) "who (is) not reverent (towards) the gods"

## Full context

nu-mu šu-meš-pát DINGIRMEŠ LUGAL-UT-[TI … ] [(GIŠ?GIDRU-an k)i-iš-š]a-ri-mi da-a-iš-tén
 nu-mu ut-ne-e ḫu-u-ma-a[n da-a]-⌈an⌉
 ku-x-[ ... NAM?.LÚ?].⌈U19.LU⌉ ma-ni-ya-aḫ-ḫi-iš-ke-mi
 na-aš DINGIRMEŠ-aš Ú-UL na-a[ḫ-ḫa-a]n-⌈za⌉
 ⌈na⌉-x-[ ... ]-ti Ú-UL na-aḫ-ḫa-an-za
 ⌈ú⌉-ga-an za-aḫ-mi
 na-a[n ... ]-⌈ya-mi⌉
 ⌈a-pé-e?⌉-x-[ _-m]u-uš-ša-an i-da-a-lu ⌈a⌉-i!-iš-mi-it ⌈DINGIR⌉-x-[ ... ] dUTU-i d10-ni-y[a] ⌈pu⌉-u-ri-ya-aš-ma-aš píd-da-a-⌈an⌉-z[i] ¬¬¬

## Translation

YOU, gods, gave me the kingdom [and] the scepter in my hand.
 The whole land is given to me.
 The people I govern,
 she is not reverent towards the gods.
 [ ... ] (is) not reverent.
 I will beat them.
 I will... -]en them.
 Those [...] bring their evil mouths to the gods, the sun god and the weather god, to their lips.

## Syllabic context

nu-mu šu-meš-pát DINGIRMEŠ LUGAL-UT-[TI …]x[ ... ki-iš-š]a-ri-mi da-a-iš-tén
nu-mu ut-ne-e ḫu-u-ma-a[n da-a]-⌈an⌉
ku-x-[ ... NAM?.LÚ?].⌈U19.LU⌉ ma-ni-ya-aḫ-ḫi-iš-ke-mi
na-aš DINGIRMEŠ-aš Ú-UL na-a[ḫ-ḫa-a]n-⌈za⌉
⌈na⌉-x-[ ... ]-ti Ú-UL na-aḫ-ḫa-an-za
⌈ú⌉-ga-an za-aḫ-mi
na-a[n ... ]-⌈ya-mi⌉
⌈a-pé-e?⌉-x-[ _-m]u-uš-ša-an i-da-a-lu ⌈a⌉-i!-iš-mi-it ⌈DINGIR⌉-x-[ ... ] dUTU-i d10-ni-y[a] ⌈pu⌉-u-ri-ya-aš-ma-aš píd-da-a-⌈an⌉-z[i] ¬¬¬

## Master context

nu=mu šumeš=pat DINGIRMEŠ LUGAL-UT[TI …] GIŠGIDRU-an k[išš]ari=mi dāišten
nu=mu utnē ḫūma[n d]ān
ku-[ ... NAM.LÚ].U19.LU maniyaḫḫiškemi
n=aš DINGIRMEŠ-aš UL na[ḫḫa]nz(a)
na-[ ... ]-ti UL naḫḫanz(a)
ug=an zaḫmi
n=a[n ... ]-yami
apē=[ ... =m]u=ššan idālu aīš=(š)mit DINGIR-[…] dUTU-i d10-ni=y[a] pūriyaš=(š)maš piddānz[i]

## Original translation

IHR, Götter, gabt mir die Königsherr[schaft (und)] das Zepter in meine H[an]d.
Mir (ist) das ganze Land gegeben.
D[ie Men]sch(heit), die ich regiere,
die (ist) nicht ehr[fürch]tig den Göttern (gegenüber).
[ ... ] (ist) nicht ehrfürchtig.
Ich werde sie schlagen.
Ich werde si[e ... -]en.
Jene [ ... ] bringe[n m]ir ihren bösen Mund den Götter[n ... ], dem Sonnengott un[d] dem Wettergott, zu ihren Lippen.

## English translation

You, gods, gave me the royal lord [shaft (and)] the scepter in my H [an] d.
Given me the whole country.
D [ie men] Sch (Heit) that I rule,
which (is) not honest to the gods (opposite).
[...] (is) not awesome.
I will beat her.
I will be [e ... -] en.
Those [...] bring her bad mouth to the gods [n ...], the sun god and the weather god, to their lips.

## Links

- [Textcorpora](https://www.hethport.uni-wuerzburg.de/txhet_gebet/partitur.php?xst=CTH%20389.2&prgr=%C2%A7%207%27&lg=DE&ed=E.%20Rieken%20et%20al.)
