# 0472 · MERCY · duddu- — KBo 7.28 — Vs. 17'

| Field | Value |
|---|---|
| ID | 0472 |
| Genre | Gebete |
| CTH | 371.1 - Das Gebet an die Sonnengöttin der Erde |
| Publication | KBo 7.28 |
| Lines | Vs. 17' |
| Paragraph | 5' |
| Wordform | duwaddu |
| Semantics | mercy |
| Emotional Domain | MERCY |
| Lemma | duddu- |

## Context

duwaddu taknāš dUTU-aš dLAMMA-ŠU "Mercy, patron deity of the Sun Goddess of the Earth!"

## Syllabic Context

⌈du⌉-wa-ad-du ták-⌈na⌉-a-aš dUTU-aš dLAMMA-ŠU
⌈DI-ma tu⌉-el e-eš-tu
nu zi-i[k] az-zi-ik-ki-i ak-ku-uš-ki-i
nu ták-na-a-aš dUTU-i pé-ra-an LUGAL-un a-aš-š[u] me-mi-iš-ki
na-aš-ta ⌈ŠUM⌉-MI LUGAL ták-na-a-aš dUTU-i pé-ra-an a-aš-šu tar-aš-ki
[…] A-BU-ŠU AMA-ŠU ŠEŠ-⌈ŠU⌉ NIN-SÚ LÚga-i-na-aš-ši-iš LÚa-ra-aš-ši-iš ku-⌈uš⌉-du-wa-a-ez-zi
z[i]-⌈ga⌉-an le-e tar-na-at-ti ¬¬¬

## Master Context

duwaddu taknāš dUTU-aš dLAMMA-ŠU
DI-ma tuel ēštu
nu zi[k] azzikkī akkuškī
nu taknāš dUTU-i peran LUGAL-un āšš[u] memiški
n=ašta ŠUMMI LUGAL taknāš dUTU-i peran āššu tar(a)ški
[…] ABU-ŠU AMA-ŠU ŠEŠ-ŠU NIN-SU LÚgainaš=šiš LÚaraš=šiš kušduwāezzi
z[i]g=an lē tarnatti

## Original Translation

Gnade, Schutzgottheit der Sonnengöttin der Erde!
Das Recht aber soll deine (Sache) sein!
D[U] iss (jetzt) (und) trinke!
Vor der Sonnengöttin der Erde sprich (dabei) gu[t] vom König!
Vom Namen des Königs sprich (dabei) gut vor der Sonnengöttin der Erde!
[] sein Vater, seine Mutter, sein Bruder, seine Schwester, sein angeheirateter Verwandter (oder) sein Freund [] verleumdet,
lass D[U] ihn nicht!

## English Translation

Mercy, god of protective for the sun goddess of the earth!
But the right should be your (thing)!
D [u] iss (now) (and) drink!
In front of the sun goddess of the earth (there) gu [t] from the king!
From the name of the king, speak (there) well in front of the sun goddess of the earth!
[] his father, his mother, his brother, his sister, his married relative (or) his friend [] slandered,
Don't let him!

## Links

- [Textcorpora](https://www.hethport.uni-wuerzburg.de/txhet_gebet/partitur.php?xst=CTH%20371.1&prgr=%C2%A7%205%27&lg=DE&ed=E.%20Rieken%20et%20al.)
