# 0811 · ANGER · kardimmiya- — KUB 33.15+ — Rs. iv 20'-23' karpis sawar

| Field | Value |
|---|---|
| ID | 0811 |
| Genre | Myths |
| CTH | 326 - Der Wettergott der Königin Ašmunikkal |
| Publication | KUB 33.15+ |
| Lines | Rs. iv 20'-23' karpis sawar |
| Paragraph | 9''' |
| Wordform | kardimiyaz |
| Semantics | anger |
| Emotional Domain | ANGER |
| Lemma | kardimmiya- |

## Context

... ŠA d10 ḫaršannaš karpiš kardimiyaz šāwar ḪUL-lun memian  ... QĀTAMMA ārranteš ašandu " ... the personal weather god's rage, anger, resentment (and) bad speech  ... should be stopped in exactly the same way!"

## Syllabic Context

[ ... ]x-⌈an⌉ da-a-i
NINDA.Ì.E.DÉ.A PA-NI DINGIR-LIM [ ... ]
3-ŠU-pát kiš-an me-ma-i
[ ... ]x i-da-lu al-pa-an ú-ez-zi
[ ... ]x LÚ d10 ti-ya-zi
[ ... a]l-pa-aš-ša ar-ḫa pa-iz-zi
[ ... a]l-pa-aš-ša ú-ez-zi
DUGÚTUL-aš-kán [ ... ]
[ ... GI]Šti-e-pa-aš a-ra-a-ez-zi
[ ... ḫar-š]a-an-na-aš kar-pí-iš [ ... ša]-⌈a⌉-wa!-ar ḪUL-lu-un me-mi-an [ ... Q]A-⌈TAM-MA⌉ a-ar-ra-an-te-eš [ ... ] ¬¬¬

## Master Context

[ ... ]-an dāi
NINDA.Ì.E.DÉ.A PĀNI DINGIR-LIM [ ... ]
3-ŠU=pat kišan memai
[ ... ] idalu alpan wezzi
[ ... ] LÚ d10 tiyazi
[ ... a]lpašš=a arḫa paizzi
[ ... a]lpašš=a wezzi
DUGÚTUL-aš=kan [wezzi]
[n=an GI]Štiepaš arāezzi
[ ... ŠA d10 ḫarš]annaš karpiš [kardimiyaz š]āwar ḪUL-lun memian [ ... Q]ĀTAMMA ārranteš [ašandu]

## Original Translation

Er nimmt den [ ... ] ...
Der Rührkuchen vor der Gottheit [ ... ]
Dreimal spricht er folgendermaßen:
„[ ... ] ... die schlechte Wolke kommt.
[ ... ] ... der Mann des Wettergottes tritt hin.
[ ... ] und die Wolke geht weg.
[ ... ] und die Wolke kommt.
Der Topf [kommt].
Der Löffel hält [ihn] auf.
[ ... des persön]lichen [Wettergottes] Wut, [Zorn, G]roll (und) schlechte Rede [ ... sollen g]enauso aufgehalten [sein]!“

## English Translation

He takes the... ... The sponge cake in front of the deity... He speaks three times as follows: "... ... the bad cloud comes. ... ... the man of the weather god steps down. ... and the cloud goes away. ... and the cloud comes. The pot comes. The spoon stops him. ... the personal weather god's anger, wrath, resentment (and) bad speech ... should be stopped in the same way!"

## Links

- [Textcorpora](https://www.hethport.uni-wuerzburg.de/txhet_myth/partitur.php?xst=CTH%20326&prgr=%C2%A7%209%27%27%27&lg=DE&ed=E.%20Rieken%20et%20al.)
- [TLGdig](https://www.hethport.uni-wuerzburg.de/TLHdig/tlh_xtx.php?d=KUB%2033.15)
