**ID:** 1171

**Genre:** Myths

**CTH:** 322.1 - Telipinu und die Tochter des Meeres

**Publication:** KUB 12.60

**Lines:** Vs. i 11-12

**Paragraph:** 4

**Wordform:** naḫšariyattat

**Semantics:** fear

**Emotional domain:** FEAR

**Lemma:** naḫḫ-

**Full location:** KUB 12.60 Vs. i 11-15

## Context

nu=šši arunaš naḫšariyattat "The sea was afraid of him"

## Full context

⌈d⌉Te-li-pí-nu-uš a-ru-na pa-it
 nu-u[š-ši a-ru-na-aš] ⌈na-aḫ⌉-ša-ri-ya-at-ta-at
 nu-uš-ši ⌈DUMU.MUNUS⌉-[SÚ ...pa-iš ]
 ⌈d⌉UTU-un-na-aš-ši pa-iš
 nu dTe-li-pí-n[u-uš ... ] a-ru-na-aš-ša DUMU.MUNUS-⌈SÚ⌉ a-ru-na-az ⌈EGIR⌉-[pa ... ]
 nu-uš dIM-aš kat-ta-an pé-⌈e?⌉-[ḫu-te-et?] ¬¬¬

## Translation

Telipinu went to the sea.
 [The sea] was afraid [of him]
 and [gave] him [his] daughter,
 and gave him the Sun god.
 Telipin[u brought the Sun god] and the daughter of the sea from the sea
 and brought them to the weather god.

## Syllabic context

⌈d⌉te-li-pí-nu-uš a-ru-na pa-it
nu-u[š-ši a-ru-na-aš] ⌈na-aḫ⌉-ša-ri-ya-at-ta-at
nu-uš-ši ⌈DUMU.MUNUS⌉-[SÚ ... ]
⌈d⌉UTU-un-na-aš-ši pa-iš
nu dte-li-pí-n[u-uš ... ] a-ru-na-aš-ša DUMU.MUNUS-⌈SÚ⌉ a-ru-na-az ⌈EGIR⌉-[pa ... ]
nu-uš dIM-aš kat-ta-an pé-⌈e?⌉-[ḫu-te-et?] ¬¬¬

## Master context

dtelipinuš aruna pait
nu=[šši arunaš] naḫšariyattat
nu=šši ⌈DUMU.MUNUS⌉-[SU paiš]
dUTU-unn=a=šši paiš
nu dtelipin[uš dUTU-un] arunašš=a DUMU.MUNUS-⌈SU⌉ arunaz EGIR-[pa uwatet]
n=uš dIM-aš kattan pē[ḫutet?]

## Original translation

Telipinu ging zum Meer.
[Das Meer] fürchtete sich [vor ihm]
und [gab] ihm [seine] Tochter.
Auch den Sonnengott gab es ihm.
Telipin[u brachte den Sonnengott] und die Tochter des Meeres aus dem Meer zur[ück]
und br[achte] sie zum Wettergott.

## English translation

Telipinu went to the sea.
[The sea] was afraid of him]
And [gave him] [his] daughter.
He also gave the sun god.
Telipin [u brought the sun god] and the daughter of the sea from the sea to the [ück]
and Br [pay attention] to the weather god.

## Links

- [Textcorpora](https://www.hethport.uni-wuerzburg.de/txhet_myth/partitur.php?xst=CTH%20322.1&prgr=%C2%A7%204&lg=DE&ed=E.%20Rieken%20et%20al.)
