**ID:** 1146

**Genre:** Myths

**CTH:** 348.I.1 – Das Ḫedammu-Lied

**Publication:** KUB 33.103

**Lines:** Vs. ii 9-10

**Paragraph:** 7''

**Wordform:** idalauwani

**Semantics:** evil

**Emotional domain:** EVIL

**Lemma:** idālu-

**Full location:** KUB 36.16 + KUB 33.100 17'-26' (dubl. KUB 33.103 Vs. ii 9-16)

## Context

kuwat=pat=wa šer zik dKumarbiš DUMU.NAM.LÚ.U19.LU-an idalauwani šanḫiškeši "“Why are you, Kumarbi, haunting humanity above in evil?"

## Full context

[dA.A-a(š GALGA-aš LUGAL-uš A-N)]A dKu-mar-bi me-[m]i-iš-ki-u-wa-an da-a-iš
 [(ku-wa-at-pát-wa) še-er z(i-ik dK)]u-mar-bi-iš DUMU.NAM.LÚ.U19.LU-an i-da-la-u-w[(a-ni ša-an-ḫi-iš-)ke-ši]
 [ UL DUMU.NAM].LÚ.U19.LU-aš še-li-in da-a-i
 nu Ú-UL [(tu-uk dKu-mar-bi-in ḫ)u-d]a-ak BA[L-an-z]i
 ŠÀ É DINGIR-LIM-ya-kán [(du-uš-ka4-ra-an-ni an-da tu-u)]k-pát d[(Ku-ma)]r-bi-in DINGIRMEŠ-aš ad-da-[(an ḫu-u-da-a-ak BAL-an-ti)]
 [(UL)] ši-ip-[(pa-a)]n-ta-an-zi d10-an ŠA DU[MU.NA]M.LÚ.U19.L[(U-UT-TI LÚ PA5-an)]
 [( UL-ma-kán ú-u)]k? dÉ.⌈A⌉-[a]n <(LUGAL-u)n> ŠUM-an da-ra-an-zi
 [ ... ḫu-u-ma-an-t]a-aš ḫa-a[t]-ta-tar EGIR-an zi-ik-ke-ši
 [ ... ] ŠA DUMU.NAM.LÚ.U19.LU e-eš-⌈ḫar iš-ḫa-aḫ-ru⌉[ ... ]
 [ ... dK]u-mar-b[i _ ]x x[ ... ]

## Translation

[E]a, the King of Wisdom, began to speak to Kumarbi:
 "Why do you, Kumarbi, seek evil in humanity [above]?
 Does humanity not lay down the grain?
 And do they not sacrifice you quickly, Kumarbi?
 Inside the temple too they offer sacrifices to you, Kumarbi, the father of the gods, with joy (and) speed.
 Are they not sacrificing the weather god, the sewer inspector of humanity?
 But am I not called Ea, the king, (by) name?
 You put the wisdom of all [...] behind.
 [ ... ] Blood (and) tears of humanity [ ... ]
 [ ... K]umarb[i ... ]

## Syllabic context

[ ... A-N]A dku-mar-bi me-[m]i-iš-ki-u-wa-an da-a-iš
[ ... dk]u-mar-bi-iš DUMU.NAM.LÚ.U19.LU-an i-da-la-u-w[a-ni] [ ... ]
[ ... DUMU.NAM].LÚ.U19.LU-aš še-li-in da-a-i
nu Ú-UL [ ... ḫu-d]a-ak BA[L-an-z]i
ŠÀ É DINGIR-LIM-ya-kán [ ... tu-u]k-pát d[ku-ma]r-bi-in DINGIRMEŠ-aš ad-da-[an] [ ... ]
[ ... -a]n ši-ip-[pa-a]n-ta-an-zi d10-an ŠA DU[MU.NA]M.LÚ.U19.L[U-UT-TI] [ ... ]
[ ... ú-u]k? dÉ.⌈A⌉-[a]n ŠUM-an da-ra-an-zi
[ ... ḫu-u-ma-an-t]a-aš ḫa-a[t]-ta-tar EGIR-an zi-ik-ke-ši
[ ... ]ŠA DUMU.NAM.LÚ.U19.LU e-eš-⌈ḫar iš-ḫa-aḫ-ru⌉ [ ... ]
[ ... dk]u-mar-b[i _ ]x x[ ... ]

## Master context

[dĀ-a]š GALGA-aš LUGAL-uš ANA dkumarbi memiškiuwan dāiš
kuwat=pat=wa [šer z]ik dkumarbiš DUMU.NAM.LÚ.U19.LU-an idalauwani šanḫiš[keši]
[UL DUMU.NAM].LÚ.U19.LU-aš šelin dāi
nu UL tuk dkumarbin ḫ[ūd]ak BA[L-anz]i
ŠÀ É DINGIR-LIM=ya=kan duškaranni anda tuk=pat dkumarbin DINGIRMEŠ-aš attan ḫūdāk BAL-anti
UL BAL-anzi d10-an ŠA DU[MU.NA]M.LÚ.U19.LU-UTTI LÚ PA5-an
UL=ma=kan ūk dÉ.A-an LUGAL-u[n] ŠUM-an daranzi
[ ... ] ḫūmantaš GALGA-tar EGIR-an zikkeši
[ ... ]ŠA DUMU.NAM.LÚ.U19.LU ēšḫar išḫaḫru [ ... ]
[ ... dk]umarb[i ... ]

## Original translation

[E]a, der König der Weisheit, begann, zu Kumarbi zu sprechen:
„Warum such[st d]u, Kumarbi, denn die Menschheit [oben] im Bösen heim?
Legt [nicht die Mens]chheit das Getreide hin?
Und beop[fer]n sie dich, Kumarbi, nicht sc[hne]ll?
Auch im Innern des Tempels beopfert sie dich, Kumarbi, den Vater der Götter, in Freude (und) schnell.
Beopfern sie nicht den Wettergott, den Kanalinspektor der Me[nsc]hheit?
Nennt man mich aber nicht Ea, de[n] König, (mit) Namen?
Du stellst die Weisheit aller [ ... ] hinter.
[ ... ] Blut (und) Tränen der Menschheit [ ... ]
[ ... K]umarb[i ... ]

## English translation

[E] A, the King of Wisdom, began to speak to Kumarbi:
"Why are looking for [st d] u, Kumarbi, because humanity [above] in evil home?
Doesn't the mens] do the grain?
And be you, kumarbi, not sc [hne] ll?
Also inside the temple she, Kumarbi, the father of the gods, quickly (and) you (and).
Do you not deploy the weather god, the sewer inspector of the Me [NSC]?
But is not called EA, de [n] king, (with) names?
You put the wisdom of all [...] behind.
[...] Blood (and) tears of humanity [...]
[... k] Umarb [i ...]

## Links

- [Textcorpora](https://www.hethport.uni-wuerzburg.de/txhet_myth/partitur.php?xst=CTH%20348.I.1&prgr=%C2%A7%207%27%27&lg=DE&ed=E.%20Rieken%20et%20al.)
