**ID:** 1187

**Genre:** Myths

**CTH:** 364.2 – Der Gesang vom Silber – Die Geburt des Silbers

**Publication:** KUB 33.115

**Lines:** Vs. ii 8'

**Paragraph:** 5''

**Wordform:** nāḫi

**Semantics:** fear

**Emotional domain:** FEAR

**Lemma:** naḫḫ-

**Full location:** KUB 33.115 Vs. ii 1'-8’ (dubl. KUB 36.18)

## Context

nu=kan 1-edani dKumarbi nāḫi "fear (only) one, (namely) Kumarbi!”"

## Full context

[(ŠEŠ-aš-ma-at-ta d10-a)š ... ]
 na-aš-ša-an ne-pí-š[i LUGAL-u(š)]
 [(na-aš KUR-e-an-ti LU)GAL-uš]
 [ ... ] NIN-KA dGAŠAN-iš
 na-aš U[(RUNe-nu-wa MUNUS.LUGA)L-aš]
 [ ... ku-e-d(a-ni-ik-ki)] na-aḫ-i / na-aḫ-ti
 1-e-da-ni-kán DIN[GIR-LIM-ni na-aḫ-ti ]
 KUR-e ⌈(LÚKÚR-uš)⌉-ša ḫu-i-⌈ta⌉-[ar ... ] [ katta ḫar-nam-ni-iš-ki-i(z-zi)]
 ša-ra-a-az-zi kat-ti-er-r[i? ... ] [ ... ḫu-i-nu-uš-ke-ez-z]i
 [(kat-te-er-ra-ma)] ša-ra-a ḫu-i-nu-uš-ke-ez-z[i]
 [lē kwedanikki] na-a-ḫi
 nu-kán 1-e-da-ni dK[u-mar-bi nāḫi]

## Translation

But your brother (is) the weather god,
 he (is) [in] heaven King,
 and he (is) king in the land.
 [ ... ] your sister (is) Ishtar,
 she (is) the queen of Nineveh.
 Do not fear any [deity]!
 [Fear] (only) the one God!
 In the land he stirs up both the enemies and the wild animals.
 He lets the upper ones [...] run down.
 But he lets the lower ones run upwards.
 Fear [not just anyone],
 [fear] (only) the one, (namely) K[umarbi]!”

## Syllabic context

[ ... a]r?-ḫa GIŠGIDRU-an ME-[aš]
[ ... ][ ... ]
[EG]IR-pa-aš!-za-kán ⌈ne-ya⌉-a[t? ...? ]
[ ... ] EGIR-pa me-mi-⌈iš⌉-ki-u-wa-an ⌈da-iš⌉
[ ... ]x
KÙ.BABBAR-an-ti le-e-mu-kán ku-e-š[i]
[ ... UR]U-an
ú-ga-an-ta te-m[i]
[ ... U]RU-aš URUúr-ki-ša-aš at-ta-aš-⌈ši⌉-[iš]
[ ... ]
[n]a-aš URUúr-⌈ki⌉-ša e-eš-z[i]
[ ... ]
⌈ḫa-an-né-eš-šar⌉ x x x[ ... ]
[ ... ]
na-aš-ša-an ne-pí-š[i ... ]
[ ... ]
[ ... ] NIN-KA dGAŠAN-iš
na-aš U[RUne-nu-wa ... ]
[ ... ] na-a-ḫi
1-e-da-ni-kán DIN[GIR-LIM-ni ... ]
KUR-e ⌈LÚKÚR-uš⌉-ša ḫu-i-⌈ta⌉-[ar ... ]
ša-ra-a-az-zi kat-ti-er-r[i? ... ]
[ ... ] ša-ra-a ḫu-i-nu-uš-ke-ez-z[i]
[ ... ] na-a-ḫi
nu-kán 1-e-da-ni dk[u-mar-bi ... ]
[ ... ] iš-ta-ma-aš-ta
na-aš URU-a[z ... ]
URUúr-ki-ša-aš ar-aš
na-aš-t[a ... ] ⌈Ú⌉-UL ú-e-me-ya-at
KUR-e-aš-kán [ .. ]
[ú]-⌈e-ḫe-eš⌉-ke-ez-zi ḪUR.SAGMEŠ! ⌈še?-e?⌉-[er? ... ] ¬¬¬

## Master context

[nu=šši=kan AMA-ŠU a]rḫa GIŠGIDRU-an ME-[aš]
[ ... ]
[EG]IR-pa=aš=za=kan neya[t?]
[nu DUMU-i=šši KÙ.BABBAR-anti] EGIR-pa memiškiuwan ⌈daiš⌉
[ ... ]
KÙ.BABBAR-anti lē=mu=kan kweš[i]
[punuškiši=ma kwin UR]U-an
ug=an=ta tem[i]
[ABŪ-KA dkumarbiš U]RU-aš URUurkišaš attaš=ši[š]
[ ... ]
[n]=aš URUurkiša ēšz[i]
[ ... ]
[nu=kan KUR]-eaš dapidaš ⌈ḫanneššar⌉ [ ... -z]i
ŠEŠ-aš=ma=tta d10-a[š ... ]
n=aš=šan nepiš[i LUGAL-u]š
n=aš KUR-eanti LU[GAL-uš]
[ ... ] NIN-KA dGAŠAN-iš
n=aš URUnenuwa MUNUS.LUGA[L-aš]
[DINGIR-LIM-ni=kan lē kwed]anikki naḫti
1-edani=kan DINGIR-L[IM-ni zik nāḫi]
KUR-e LÚKÚRMEŠ-ušš=a ḫūita[rr=a ... katta ḫarnamniški]zzi
šarāzzi katterr[i ... ḫuinuškezz]i
katterra=ma šarā ḫuinuškezz[i]
[lē kwedanikki] nāḫi
nu=kan 1-edani dk[umarbi nāḫi]
[mān KÙ.BABBAR-anza=ma] AMA-naš uddār ištamašta
n=aš URU-a[z ... ] iyanniš
URUurkišaš ar(a)š
n=ašt[a dkumarbin ABĀ-ŠU] INA É-ŠU anda UL wemeyat
KUR-e=aš=kan waḫanna pānza? [ēšta]
[w]eḫeškezzi ḪUR.SAGMEŠ! šē[r? ... ]

## Original translation

[Seine Mutter] na[hm ihm] den Stab [w]eg.
[ ... ]
Sie dreh[te] sich [ ... u]m
und begann, [ihrem Kind, dem Silber,] zu antworten.
[ ... ]
„O Silber, töt[e] mich nicht!
Die [Sta]dt, (nach) [der du mich fragst],
sie nen[ne] ich dir.
[Dein Vater (ist) Kumarbi], der Vater der [Sta]dt Urkiš.
[ ... ]
Er woh[nt] in Urkiš.
[ ... ]
Er [ ...]t die Rechtsangelegenheiten aller [Länd]er [ ... ].
Dein Bruder aber (ist) d[er] Wettergott,
er (ist) [im] Himme[l Köni]g,
und er (ist) im Land Kö[nig].
[ ... ] deine Schwester (ist) Ištar,
sie (ist) die Köni[gin] von Ninive.
Fürchte [nicht irgend]eine [Gottheit]!
[Fürchte du] (nur) die eine Gotthe[it]!
Im Land [hetz]t er sowohl die Feinde als auch die wilden Tie[re auf].
Die Oberen [ ... läss]t er nach unt[en laufen].
Die Unteren aber läss[t] er nach oben laufen.
Fürchte [nicht irgendeinen],
[fürchte] (nur) den einen, (nämlich) K[umarbi]!“
[Als das Silber aber] die Worte der Mutter gehört hatte,
ging es [ ... au]s der Stadt los.
Es gelangte nach Urkiš
und fand [Kumarbi, seinen Vater,] nicht in seinem Haus.
Kumarbi [war] gegangen, um im Land umherzustreifen
(und) [ ... s]treift au[f] den Bergen umher.

## English translation

[His mother] na [hm him] the staff [w] eG.
[...]
She turns [... u] m
And began to answer [her child, the silver,].
[...]
"O silver, don't kill me!
The [sta] dt, (after) [which you ask me],
You nerve [no] you.
[Your father (is) kumarbi], the father of the [Sta] dt Urkiš.
[...]
He deployed in Urkiš.
[...]
He [...] T the legal matters of all [Länd].
Your brother, however, is () the weather god,
he (is) [in] Himme [l köni] g,
and he (is) in the country Kö [nig].
[...] your sister (is) ištar,
she (is) the Köni [gin] from nineive.
Fear [not any] a [deity]!
[Fear you] (only) one god [it]!
In the country, he was both the enemies and the wild tie [re on].
The upper [... lets you run according to the UNT [en].
But the lower ones let it run up.
Fear [not just any],
[fear] (only) the one, (namely) k [umarbi]! "
[When the silver] had heard the words of the mother,
it went [... au] s of the city.
It came to Urkiš
And found [Kumarbi, his father,] not in his house.
Kumarbi [War] gone to strip around the country
(and) [... s] drips the mountains.

## Links

- [Textcorpora](https://www.hethport.uni-wuerzburg.de/txhet_myth/partitur.php?xst=CTH%20364.2&prgr=%C2%A7%205%27%27&lg=DE&ed=E.%20Rieken%20et%20al.)
