**ID:** 1397

**Genre:** Myths

**CTH:** 327.1 - Der Wettergott der Königin Ḫarapšili

**Publication:** KBo 8.69

**Lines:** 10'

**Paragraph:** 5''''

**Wordform:** āššawēt IGI.ḪI.A-it

**Semantics:** mercy

**Emotional domain:** MERCY

**Lemma:** āššu-

**Full location:** KBo 8.69 10’-12'

## Context

... GÉME-KA āššawēt IGI.ḪI.A-it? uški? "See?  your servant with good eyes"

## Full context

[...GÉ]ME?-KA a-aš-ša-ú-e-et IGIḪI.⌈A⌉-[it?...]
 [...ḫu-u-ma(-an-te-et) ka(r-ti-it? )... ]
 [ ... DUMUMEŠ DUM]U.MUNUSMEŠ nu-ú-ti tu-u-ma-a[n-ti-ya ... ]

## Translation

[Look?] to your servant with good eyes.
 [...] with [whole [heart] [...]
 [... for sons and daughters] in consent (and) obedience [...]
 He came, the weather god of the Harapshili.

## Syllabic context

[ ... GÉ]ME?-KA a-aš-ša-ú-e-et IGIḪI.⌈A⌉-[it? ... ]
Kolon fehlt.
[ ... DUMUMEŠ DUM]U.MUNUSMEŠ nu-ú-ti tu-u-ma-a[n-ti-ya ... ]
[ ... ] ⌈f⌉ḫa-ra-ap-ši-li
[ ... GIŠ]⌈šar-pa-aš e-ša-at⌉ []
[ ... ]
[GIŠA]B-ya kam-ma-ra-a-aš tar-n[a-aš]
[ ... t]ar-na-aš
ZAG.GAR.RA-aš ḫa-an-⌈da-at-ta-at⌉
[še-er-ra-aš-ša-an DINGIRME]Š ḫa-an-ta-an-da!-ti ¬¬¬
[ ... ḫa-a]n-d[a-i]t-ta
Kolon fehlt.
še-er-ra-aš-ša-an GIŠkal-mi-i-e-eš17 [ḫa-an-ta-a]n-⌈ta-at⌉
Éḫi-li-kán an-da UDU⌈ḪI⌉.A ḫa-an-ta-ti
[ ... É.G]U4-⌈ma⌉ an-da GU4ḪI.A ḫa-an-ta-an-ta-ti
[ ... ]
[az-zi-ik]-⌈kán-zi⌉
na-at-za iš-pí-i-e-er ⌈nam-ma⌉
[ak-ku-uš-k]án-zi-ma
na-at-za ḫa-aš-ši-ik-ke-[er] ⌈nam-ma⌉
[ ... p]é-ra-an ŠA SILA4 KUŠkur-ša-aš ga-an-[kán-za]
[ ... a]n-da SILA4-aš mi-i-ú-uš ḫa-lu-ga-aš [ ... ]
[ ... ]x MUNUS.LUGAL PA-NI dIM fḫa-ra-ap-ši-[li] [QA-TAM-MA mi-i]-⌈ú-uš⌉ ḫa-lu-ga-aš e-eš-du
[ ... w]a-al-la-aš ki-it-ta
[ ... p]ár-⌈ḫu⌉-i-na-aš an-da [ ... ]
[ ... ]x[ ... ]

## Master context

[ ... G]ÉME-KA āššawēt IGIḪI.A-[it? uški?]
[ ... ḫ]ūmantet [ka]rtit? [ ... ]
[ ... DUMUMEŠ DUM]U.MUNUSMEŠ nūti tūma[ntiya ... ]
[ ...? ] wet d10 fḫarapšili
n=aš=za [ ...? GIŠ]šarpaš ešat
[ ... n]eyat
GIŠABḪI.A-uš kammarāš tarn[aš]
[É-er tuḫḫuw]aiš tarnaš
ZAG.GAR.RA-aš ḫandattat
[šerr=a=šš]an DINGIRMEŠ ḫantandati
[ištanani=ššan DINGIRMEŠ-n]aš ḫandatta[t]
[ ...? ]
šerr=a=ššan GIŠkalmiyēš ḫanda[n]tat
Éḫili=kan anda UDUḪI.A ḫantati
[INA É.G]U4=⌈ma⌉ anda GU4ḪI.A ḫantantati
[ ... ] ḫa[ndantat]
[azzik]kanzi
n=at=za išpiyēr ⌈namma⌉
[akkušk]anzi=ma
n=at=za ḫaššikke[r] ⌈namma⌉
[ZAG.GAR.RA p]eran ŠA SILA4 KUŠkuršaš gan[kanza]
[n=ašta a]nda SILA4-aš miyūš ḫalugaš [kitta]
[ ... ] MUNUS.LUGAL PĀNI dIM fḫarapši[li QĀTAMMA miy]ūš ḫalugaš ēšdu
[n=ašta anda ZAG-aš w]allaš kitta
[n=ašta galaktar p]arḫuinaš anda [kitta]
[ ... ]

## Original translation

[Sieh] deine [Di]enerin mit guten Aug[en] (an).
[ ... ] mit [g]anzem [He]rzen [ ... ]
[ ... für Söhne und Töc]hter in Zustimmung (und) Gehor[sam ... ]
Er kam, der Wettergott der Ḫarapšili.
Er setzte sich [ ... ] auf den -Schemel.
[ ... w]andte sich um.
Der Dunst verli[eß] die Fenster.
[Der Rau]ch verließ [das Haus].
Das Altarpostament kam in Ordnung.
[Darauf] kamen die Götter in Ordnung.
[Auf dem Altarpostament] kam[en die Gött]er in Ordnu[ng].
[ ... ]
Und darauf kamen die Holzscheite in Ord[nu]ng.
Im Viehhof kamen die Schafe in Ordnung.
[Im Rinde]rstall kamen die Rinder in Ordnung.
[ ... ] kam[en] in Or[dnung].
Sie [ess]en,
und sie wurden wieder satt.
Sie [trink]en aber,
und sie stillt[en] wieder ihren Durst.
[V]or [dem Altarpostament] (ist) das Lammvlies aufge[hängt].
[D]arin [liegt] die sanfte Botschaft des Lamms.
[Ebenso] soll die Königin vor dem Wettergott der Ḫarapši[li eine san]fte Botschaft sein.
[Darin] liegt der [rechte S]chenkel.
Darin liegen [ (und) -.
[ ... ]

## English translation

[See] your [di] enerin with good Aug [en] (an).
[...] with [g] rzen [...]
[... for sons and töc] in the consent (and) owned [sam ...]
He came, the weather god of the ḫarapšili.
He sat on the -schemel.
[... w] rang.
The haze lost the windows.
[The rough] ch left [the house].
The altarpostament was okay.
[On that] the gods were okay.
[On the altarpostament] he came in the Gött] in Ordnu [ng].
[...]
And on that came the wooden section in Ord [nu] ng.
The sheep were okay in the cattle courtyard.
[The cattle were okay in the bark.
[...] came in or [dung].
They [eat] en,
And they got full again.
But they [drink] en,
And she breaks her thirst again.
[V] or [the altarpostament] (is) the lamb fleece [hangs].
[D] Arin [lies] the gentle message of the lamb.
[Likewise] the queen is said to be a message before the weather god of the ḫarapši [li a san].
[In it] lies the [right s] chenkel.
There are [(and).
[...]

## Links

- [Textcorpora](https://www.hethport.uni-wuerzburg.de/txhet_myth/partitur.php?xst=CTH%20327.1&prgr=%C2%A7%205%27%27%27%27&lg=DE&ed=E.%20Rieken%20et%20al.)
