# 1136 · EVIL · idālu- — KUB 33.15+ — Rs. iv 15'

| Field | Value |
|---|---|
| ID | 1136 |
| Genre | Myths |
| CTH | 326 - Der Wettergott der Königin Ašmunikkal |
| Publication | KUB 33.15+ |
| Lines | Rs. iv 15' |
| Paragraph | 9''' |
| Wordform | idalu |
| Semantics | evil |
| Emotional Domain | EVIL |
| Lemma | idālu- |

## Context

...  idalu alpan wezzi "" ...  ... the? bad cloud? is coming"

## Syllabic Context

[ ... ]x-⌈an⌉ da-a-i
NINDA.Ì.E.DÉ.A PA-NI DINGIR-LIM [ ... ]
3-ŠU-pát kiš-an me-ma-i
[ ... ]x i-da-lu al-pa-an ú-ez-zi
[ ... ]x LÚ d10 ti-ya-zi
[ ... a]l-pa-aš-ša ar-ḫa pa-iz-zi
[ ... a]l-pa-aš-ša ú-ez-zi
DUGÚTUL-aš-kán [ ... ]
[ ... GI]Šti-e-pa-aš a-ra-a-ez-zi
[ ... ḫar-š]a-an-na-aš kar-pí-iš [ ... ša]-⌈a⌉-wa!-ar ḪUL-lu-un me-mi-an [ ... Q]A-⌈TAM-MA⌉ a-ar-ra-an-te-eš [ ... ] ¬¬¬

## Master Context

[ ... ]-an dāi
NINDA.Ì.E.DÉ.A PĀNI DINGIR-LIM [ ... ]
3-ŠU=pat kišan memai
[ ... ] idalu alpan wezzi
[ ... ] LÚ d10 tiyazi
[ ... a]lpašš=a arḫa paizzi
[ ... a]lpašš=a wezzi
DUGÚTUL-aš=kan [wezzi]
[n=an GI]Štiepaš arāezzi
[ ... ŠA d10 ḫarš]annaš karpiš [kardimiyaz š]āwar ḪUL-lun memian [ ... Q]ĀTAMMA ārranteš [ašandu]

## Original Translation

Er nimmt den [ ... ] ...
Der Rührkuchen vor der Gottheit [ ... ]
Dreimal spricht er folgendermaßen:
„[ ... ] ... die schlechte Wolke kommt.
[ ... ] ... der Mann des Wettergottes tritt hin.
[ ... ] und die Wolke geht weg.
[ ... ] und die Wolke kommt.
Der Topf [kommt].
Der Löffel hält [ihn] auf.
[ ... des persön]lichen [Wettergottes] Wut, [Zorn, G]roll (und) schlechte Rede [ ... sollen g]enauso aufgehalten [sein]!“

## English Translation

He takes the [...] ...
The sponge cake before the deity [...]
He speaks three times as follows:
"[...] ... the bad cloud comes.
[...] ... the man of the weather god is going.
[...] and the cloud goes away.
[...] and the cloud comes.
The pot [comes].
The spoon stops.
[... of the personal] [weather god] anger, [anger, g] roll (and) bad speech [... should be given up G] enauso [be]! "

## Links

- [Textcorpora](https://www.hethport.uni-wuerzburg.de/txhet_myth/partitur.php?xst=CTH%20326&prgr=%C2%A7%209%27%27%27&lg=DE&ed=E.%20Rieken%20et%20al.)
