# 1108 · ENMITY · kurur- — KBo 26.79 — 14'

| Field | Value |
|---|---|
| ID | 1108 |
| Genre | Myths |
| CTH | 348.I.20 – Das Ḫedammu-Lied |
| Publication | KBo 26.79 |
| Lines | 14' |
| Paragraph | 1' |
| Wordform | KÚR-aš |
| Semantics | enmity |
| Emotional Domain | ENMITY |
| Lemma | kurur- |

## Context

kwiš=aš KÚR-aš "Who is he, the enemy?”"

## Syllabic Context

[ ... ]x[ ... ]
[ ... ]ar-ḫ[a ... ]
[ ... ]
[n]a-an iš-ḫ[a- ... ]
[ ... u]t-tar iš-⌈ta-ma⌉-[ _]
[k]u-wa-at-tar li?-ḫi? (Rasur)[ ... ]
[ ... G]E6-i KI-pí kat-ta-an-da pé-e-te-er
nu-z[a ... ]
[ ... ]⌈d⌉ku-mar-bi-iš ḫa-⌈a⌉-li-ya-aš ut-tar IGI-an-d[a ... ]
[na]-aš ka-ru-ú-uš-ši-ya-⌈at⌉-ta-at-pát
nu-uš-š[i ... ] [IG]I-an-da Ú-UL me-ma-i
nu-kán dku-mar-b[i-iš ... ] [š]a-ra-a i!-ya-an-ni-eš
dku-mar-bi-iš-kán [ ... ] UGU GÌR-an da-a-iš
nu-uš-ši-kán d10-aš (Rasur)[ ... ] [U]R.SAG-li-iš LUGAL-uš IGI-an-da pa-it
nu x[ ... ] ⌈A⌉-NA dku-mar-bi me-mi-iš-ki-u-wa-an da-a-iš
[ ... ] [DINGIRM]EŠ-aš ad-da-aš
ku-wa-pí-za e-eš-ta ma-x[ _ ]x[ ... ]
[ku]-⌈i⌉-ša-aš (Rasur) KÚR-aš ¬¬¬

## Master Context

[ ... ]
[ ... ]arḫ[a ... ]
[ ... ]
[n]=an išḫ[a- ... ]
[ ... u]ttar ištama-[ _]
[k]uwattar? liḫi? [ ... ]
[ ... ] GE6-i KI-pi kattanda pēter
nu=z[a ... ]
[ ... ]dkumarbiš ḫāliyaš uttar IGI-and[a ... ]-ta
[n]=aš karūššiyattat=pat
nu=šš[i ... IG]I-anda UL memai
nu=kan dkumarb[iš] arunazza [š]arā iyannieš
dkumarbiš=kan [ ... ] UGU GÌR-an dāiš
nu=šši=kan d10-aš URU[kummiyaš U]R.SAG-liš LUGAL-uš IGI-anda pait
nu [ ... ] ANA dkumarbi memiškiuwan dāiš
[ ... DINGIRM]EŠ-aš addaš
kuwapi=za ēšta ma-[ ... ]
[kw]iš=aš KÚR-aš

## Original Translation

[ ... ]
[ ... ] for[t ... ]
[ ... ]
[ ... ] Her[r ... ] ihn [ ... ]
[ ... ] die [R]ede hör[- ... ]
[ ... ] Stärke [ … ]
Sie schafften [ ... ] in die dunkle Erde hinunter.
Und s[ich ... ]
Kumarbi [ ...]te die Angelegenheit der (Schaf)hürden gegenübe[r ... ].
Er war ganz gleichgültig
und spricht ih[m ... geg]enüber nicht.
Kumarb[i] lief vom Meer [hi]nauf.
Kumarbi setzte den Fuß oben auf [ ... ]
Der Wettergott, der [hel]denhafte König der Stadt [Kumme] ging ihm entgegen,
und [ ... ] begann, zu Kumarbi zu sprechen:
„[ ... ], Vater der [Gött]er,
wo warst du, a[ls ... ]?
[We]r ist er, der Feind?“

## English Translation

[...]
[...] For [t ...]
[...]
[...] Her [r ...] him [...]
[...] The [r] Ede Hör [- ...]
[ ... ] Strength [ … ]
They made [...] down into the dark earth.
And s [I ...]
Kumarbi [...] the matter of the (sheep) hurdles against [r ...].
He was completely indifferent
and does not speak.
Kumarb [i] ran from the sea [Hi] navy.
Kumarbi put the foot on the top [...]
The weather god, the [Hel] denige king of the city [Kumme], went towards him,
and [...] began to speak to Kumarbi:
"[...], father of the [Gött] he,
Where were you, a [ls ...]?
[We] R is he, the enemy? "

## Links

- [Textcorpora](https://www.hethport.uni-wuerzburg.de/txhet_myth/partitur.php?xst=CTH%20348.I.20&prgr=%C2%A7%201%27&lg=DE&ed=E.%20Rieken%20et%20al.)
