# 1950 · MERCY · āššu- — KBo 17.105 — Rs. iii 32-33

| Field | Value |
|---|---|
| ID | 1950 |
| Genre | Rituale |
| CTH | 433.2 - Ritual für den LAMMA-Gott kurša- und die Siebengottheit |
| Publication | KBo 17.105 |
| Lines | Rs. iii 32-33 |
| Paragraph | 22 |
| Wordform | aššuli |
| Semantics | kindness |
| Emotional Domain | MERCY |
| Lemma | āššu- |

## Context

nu=kan ANA LUGAL MUNUS.LUGAL DUMU.MEŠ.LUGAL anda aššuli nāišten "and turn to the king, the queen (and) the princes with kindness"

## Full Location

KBo 17.105 Rs. iii 30-33

## Full Context

ka-a-ša šu-ma-a-aš dIMIN.IMIN.BI-aš SÍSKUR pí-ú-en
 ⌈nu⌉-za e-ez-za-tén e-ku-ut-tén
 ḫa-du-ga-e-eš-ma-kán dIMIN.IMIN.BI-eš KASKAL-az ⌈ar-ḫa nam-ma⌉ ti-en-du
 nu A-NA dLAMMA KUŠkur-ša-aš mi-i-nu-mar pi-iš-tén
 nu-kán A-NA ⌈LUGAL MUNUS.⌉LUGAL DUMU.MEŠLUGAL an-da aš-šu-li na-a-iš-tén

## Translation

"Now we have offered you (and) the Seven Gods (pl.) a sacrifice.
 Now eat (and) drink!
 The terrible Seven Gods (Pl.) but should step out of the way again!
 To the LAMMA-God kursa- give mercy
 and turn to the king and the queen and the princes in kindness!

## Syllabic Context

ka-a-ša šu-ma-a-aš dIMIN.IMIN.BI-aš SÍSKUR pí-ú-en
⌈nu⌉-za e-ez-za-tén e-ku-ut-tén
ḫa-du-ga-e-eš-ma-kán dIMIN.IMIN.BI-eš KASKAL-az ⌈ar-ḫa nam-ma⌉ ti-en-du
nu A-NA dLAMMA KUŠkur-ša-aš mi-i-nu-mar pi-iš-tén
nu-kán A-NA ⌈LUGAL MUNUS.⌉LUGAL DUMU.MEŠLUGAL an-da aš-šu-li na-a-iš-tén
nu-uš-ma-aš KASKAL-an pí-⌈iš⌉-[ki-tén]
A-NA LÚ.MEŠMUŠEN.DÙḪI.A-ia-kán an-da aš-šu-li x x na-a-iš-tén
nu-uš-ma-aš KASKAL-⌈an⌉ p[í-iš-ki-tén]
x-at-ta-ra-u-wa-⌈ad⌉-du za-al-li-mi-iš-ša-du ¬¬¬

## Master Context

kāša šumāš dIMIN.IMIN.BI-aš SÍSKUR piwen
nu=za ēzzaten ekutten
ḫadugaēš=ma=kan dIMIN.IMIN.BI-eš KASKAL-az arḫa namma tiendu
nu ANA dLAMMA KUŠkuršaš mīnumar pišten
nu=kan ANA LUGAL MUNUS.LUGAL DUMU.MEŠLUGAL anda aššuli nāišten
nu=šmaš KASKAL-an piš[kiten]
ANA LÚ.MEŠMUŠEN.DÙḪI.A=ya=kan anda aššuli ... nāišten
nu=šmaš KASKAL-an p[iškiten]
...attarauwaddu zallimiššadu

## Original Translation

und wendet euch dem König, der Königin (und) den Prinzen in Güte zu!
Zeigt ihnen [ständig] den Weg!
Wendet euch auch den Auguren ... in Güte zu!
Z[eigt] ihnen [ständig] den Weg!
Er/es soll

## English Translation

And turn the king, the queen (and) the prince in kindness!
Show you [constantly] the way!
Also turn to the eye ... in goodness!
Z [eigt] you [constantly] the way!
He/it should

## Links

- [Textcorpora](https://www.hethport.uni-wuerzburg.de/txhet_besrit/partitur.php?xst=CTH%20433.2&prgr=%C2%A7%2022&lg=DE&ed=D.%20Bawanypeck)
