# 1503 · DISTRESS · pittuliya- — KBo 17.2 + KBo 17.7 + IBoT 3.135 — V0 iv 7'-9'

| Field | Value |
|---|---|
| ID | 1503 |
| Genre | Rituale |
| CTH | 416 - Quattro rituali antico-ittiti per la coppia reale |
| Publication | KBo 17.2 + KBo 17.7 + IBoT 3.135 |
| Lines | V0 iv 7'-9' |
| Paragraph | 49 |
| Wordform | pittuliuš |
| Semantics | pain |
| Emotional Domain | DISTRESS |
| Lemma | pittuliya- |

## Context

nēpišaš dUTU-uš …x taknaš dUTU-uš šumeš=a LUGAL-aš MUNUS.LUGAL-aš=a … aīn wāīn pittuliuš=a dātten "O Sun deity of Heaven! … O Sun goddess of the Earth! You now take ... pain, pain and constraints from the king and the queen!"

## Syllabic Context

[… -a]šta LUGAL-i MUNUS.LUGAL-ya a-i-in ú-wa-a-i-in pít-tu-li-uš-ša [da-a-aḫ-ḫ]u-un
GIŠŠÚ.A-ka-az-mi-it GIŠNÁ-az-mi-it kar-ta-az-mi-it [...]-az-mi-it da-a-aḫ-ḫu-un
n[e-e-pí-ša]-aš DUTU-uš […]x ták-na-aš DUTU-uš šu-me-eš-š[a … MUNU]S.LUGAL-aš-ša […] a-i-in wa-a-i-in […] da-a-at-te-en
[… p]í-i-iš-te-en ¬¬¬

## Master Context

[(kāša)=a]šta LUGAL-i MUNUS.LUGAL-(i)=ya aīn uwāīn pittuliuš=a [dāḫḫ]un
GIŠŠÚ.A-kaz=(š)mit GIŠNÁ-az=(š)mit kartaz=(š)mit [tugg]az=(š)mit dāḫḫun
n[ēpiš]aš DUTU-uš […]x taknaš DUTU-uš šumeš[=a LUGAL-aš MUNU]S.LUGAL-aš=a […] aīn wāīn [pittuliuš=a] dātten
[… p]īšten

## Original Translation

“[Ecco], ho preso al re ed alla regina pena, dolore e costrizioni,
(li) ho presi dal loro trono, dal loro letto, dal loro cuore (e) dalle loro [membra].
O divinità Sole del Cielo! […] O dea Sole della Terra! Voi ora prendete […] pena, dolore [e costrizioni del re] e della regina!
[…] voi date!”.

## English Translation

“[Here], I took to the king and the queen pain, pain and constraints,
(there) I took from their throne, from their bed, by their heart (e) from their [limbs].
O Sole Divinity of Heaven! [...] O goddess of the earth! You now take [...] Penalty, pain [and constraints of the king] and the queen!
[...] You give! ".

## Links

- [Textcorpora](https://www.hethport.uni-wuerzburg.de/txhet_besrit/partitur.php?xst=CTH%20416&prgr=%C2%A749&lg=IT&ed=C.%20Montuori)
