# 1499 · DISTRESS · kallara- — KUB 12.43 — 4'

| Field | Value |
|---|---|
| ID | 1499 |
| Genre | Rituale |
| CTH | 457.3 - Fragment von Beschwörung und Mythos |
| Publication | KUB 12.43 |
| Lines | 4' |
| Paragraph | 2 |
| Wordform | kallar |
| Semantics | misfortune |
| Emotional Domain | DISTRESS |
| Lemma | kallara- |

## Context

...  kallar maškiddu " ...  may the misfortune disappear!"

## Full Location

KUB 12.43 4’-7’

## Full Context

[ ... ] ⌈kal⌉-la-ar ma-as-ki-id-du
 nu šu-me-en-za-an DINGIRMEŠ-aš NINDA.GUR4.RAḪI[.A (...)] [ ... -an-d]u
 LUGAL-uš MUNUS.LUGAL-aš-ša ḫu-iš-wa-an-te-eš a-ša-an-d[u]
 [LUGAL-uš ut-n]e-an-da-an GIŠa-ri-im-pa-aš MUNUS.LUGAL-ša TI-an-za e-eš-d[u]
 [ ... ] Ù DUMUMEŠ.LUGAL ḫu-iš-wa-an-te-eš a-ša-an-du

## Translation

[ ... ] may the misfortune disappear!
 May the thick bread of our gods [...]
 May the king and queen live!
 May the king, the support of the land, and the queen be viable!
 May [the ... ] and the king's sons live!

## Syllabic Context

[ ... ] ⌈kal⌉-la-ar ma-as-ki-id-du
nu šu-me-en-za-an DINGIRMEŠ-aš NINDA.GUR4.RAḪI[.A (...)] [ ... -an-d]u
LUGAL-uš MUNUS.LUGAL-aš-ša ḫu-iš-wa-an-te-eš a-ša-an-d[u]
[LUGAL-uš ut-n]e-an-da-an GIŠa-ri-im-pa-aš MUNUS.LUGAL-ša TI-an-za e-eš-d[u]
[ ... ] Ù DUMUMEŠ.LUGAL ḫu-iš-wa-an-te-eš a-ša-an-du
DINGIRMEŠ-pát(-)x[ ... ] ¬¬¬

## Master Context

[ ... ] kallar maškiddu
nu šumenzan DINGIRMEŠ-aš NINDA.GUR4.RAḪI[.A ... -and]u
LUGAL-uš MUNUS.LUGAL-ašš=a ḫuišwanteš ašand[u]
[LUGAL-uš utn]eandan GIŠarimpaš MUNUS.LUGAL-(a)š=a TI-anza ēšd[u]
[ ... ] U DUMUMEŠ.LUGAL ḫuišwanteš ašandu
DINGIRMEŠ=pat ... [ ... ]

## Original Translation

[ ... ] möge das Unglück verschwinden!
Mögen die dicke Brote unserer Götter [ ... ]-en!
Mögen der König und die Königin lebendig sei[n]!
Mögen [der König,] Stütze des [Lan]des, und die Königin lebensfähig sein!
Mögen [die ... ] und die Königssöhne lebendig sein!
Die Götter eben [ ... ]

## English Translation

[...] May the misfortune disappear!
May the thick bread of our gods [...] -en!
May the king and the queen be alive [n]!
May [the king,] support of the [lan] of, and the queen be viable!
May [the ...] and the royal sons be alive!
The gods [...]

## Links

- [Textcorpora](https://www.hethport.uni-wuerzburg.de/txhet_besrit/partitur.php?xst=CTH%20457.3&prgr=%C2%A7%202&lg=DE&ed=F.%20Fuscagni)
