# 1952 · MERCY · āššu- — KBo 20.82 — Vs. ii 24

| Field | Value |
|---|---|
| ID | 1952 |
| Genre | Rituale |
| CTH | 434.4 - Ein Fragment mit einer mythologischen Erzählung |
| Publication | KBo 20.82 |
| Lines | Vs. ii 24 |
| Paragraph | 11'' |
| Wordform | āššuš |
| Semantics | kindness |
| Emotional Domain | MERCY |
| Lemma | āššu- |

## Context

nu dGulšaš āššuš uit "The Gulša goddess, (the) benevolent (deity), came"

## Syllabic Context

KUR-aš-ma-ša-pa an-da QA-TAM-MA wa-ar-⌈ḫu⌉[-iš?]
[nu DG]ul-ša-aš a-aš-šu-uš ú-it
na-aš-ta ŠA LUGAL MUNUS.LUGAL ŠA DUMUMEŠ TI-ta[r _   _] ⌈D⌉Kur-wa-šu-i ú-e-ek-ta
na-at-ša-ma-aš ú-da-aš
na-at nam-[ma _   _] le-e ku-iš-ki ḫu-ul-li-zi
DKur-wa-šu-wa-aš ut-tar ⌈šal⌉[- _]
[DGu]l-ša-an-kán me-na-aḫ-ḫa-an-ta a-uš-ta
nam-ma-wa[- _   _   _ -]pa DINGIRMEŠ ka-ru-ú-i-li-in DGul-ša-an [ca. 3 Zeichen -w]a-te-er
nam-ma-wa-mu a-ap-pa u-ša-am-mi-iš DG[ul-š]a-aš ú-it
nu-wa-mu A-NA ZI-YA a-ri-im-pa-an [(_ _ )] da-a-iš ¬¬¬

## Master Context

KUR-(a)šmaš=apa anda QĀTAMMA warḫu[iš(?)]
[nu DG]ulšaš āššuš uit
n=ašta ŠA LUGAL MUNUS.LUGAL ŠA DUMUMEŠ TI-ta[r ANA] DKurwašui wēkta
n=at=š(a)maš udaš
n=at nam[ma …] lē kuiški ḫullizi
DKurwašuwaš uttar šal[li]
[DGu]lšan=kan menaḫḫanta aušta
namma=wa[=mu āp]pa DINGIRMEŠ karūilin DGulšan [… uw]ater
namma=wa=mu āppa ušammiš DG[ulš]aš uit
nu=wa=mu ANA ZI=YA arimpan [(… )] daiš

## Original Translation

Das Land
Die Gulš-Göttin, (die) gütige (Gottheit), kam:
sie forderte [dem] Gott Kurwašu das Lebe[n] des Königs, der Königin (und) ihrer Söhne ab
(und) er brachte es ihnen.
Ferner soll niemand das (Dem. Pron. Akk.) [ … ] anfechten;
das Wort des Kurwašu (ist) ehrwür[dig.]
Er hat der Gulš-Göttin (mit diesen Worten) entgegengesehen:
„Nochmals haben die Götter die alte Gulš-Göttin [zur]ück [zu mir] [ …
noch einmal kam die
(und) legte mir eine Last auf meine Seele“.

## English Translation

The country
The Gulš goddess, (the) kind (deity), came:
She demanded [the] god Kurwašu the living [n] of the king, the queen (and) of her sons
(and) he brought it to them.
Furthermore, nobody should contest the (the. Pron. Akk.) […];
The word of the Kurwašu (is) honest
He saw the Gulš goddess (with these words):
"Again, the gods have the old Gulš goddess [to the] ück [to me] [...
once again came
(and) put a burden on my soul ”.

## Links

- [Textcorpora](https://www.hethport.uni-wuerzburg.de/txhet_besrit/partitur.php?xst=CTH%20434.4&prgr=%C2%A7%2011%27%27&lg=DE&ed=F.%20Fuscagni)
