# 1770 · FEAR · ḫatuk- — KBo 13.104+ — Vs. i 10'-11'

| Field | Value |
|---|---|
| ID | 1770 |
| Genre | Rituale |
| CTH | 434.1 - Ein Flussritual mit einem Mythologem über die Erschaffung der Menschen |
| Publication | KBo 13.104+ |
| Lines | Vs. i 10'-11' |
| Paragraph | 3' |
| Wordform | ḫatukiškizzi |
| Semantics | terror |
| Emotional Domain | FEAR |
| Lemma | ḫatuk- |

## Context

nu kuit kuedani tezzi ḫatukiškizzi "(If someone) says something to someone and this is terrible for him in the long run"

## Full Location

KBo 13.104+ Vs. i 9'-12'

## Full Context

zi-ik-ma-za ÍD-aš pár-ku-nu-mar DUMU-an-na-aš [ _ _ _ _ _ ] :u-ša-an-[t]a-ra-ḫi-ša ta-at-ta
 nu ku-[(it ku-e-da-ni te-ez-z)i]
 ḫa-tu-ki-⌈iš⌉-<(ki-iz)>-zi
 na-aš EGIR-pa tu-uk A-NA [(ÍD wa-ap-pu-u-wa-aš-ša)] dGU[L-š]a-aš DINGIR.MAḪ-aš ú-iz-zi
 UN-an ku-i-e-[(eš ša-am-ni-eš-kán-z)i] ¬¬¬

## Translation

But you, O river, have taken for yourself purification, life (force) for descendants (and) prosperity.
 (If someone) says something to someone,
 (and this is terrible for him) in the long run,
 so he comes to you, the river, and to the Gulš goddesses and the MAḪ goddesses of the bank,
 those who created man.

## Syllabic Context

[z]i-i[k- _   _] ÍD-aš pár-ku-nu-mar {Ras.} DUMU-la-an-⌈na-aš ḫu-i⌉[- _   _] [(:) u-]ša-an-⌈ta-ra⌉-ḫi-ša da-at-ta
nu ku-it ku-e[- _   _   _   _   _]
[ḫ]a-tu-ki-iš-⌈ki⌉-iz-zi
na-aš EGIR-pa tu-uk A-N[A ÍD] [wa]-⌈ap⌉-wa-aš-ša DGUL-ša-aš-ša DINGIR.MAḪMEŠ pa-iz-[zi]
[an-t]u-⌈uḫ-ša⌉-an ku-i-e-eš ša-am-ni-eš-kán-z[i] ¬¬¬

## Master Context

zik=ma=za ÍD-aš parkunumar DUMU-lannaš ḫuidumar : ušantaraḫiša datta
nu kuit kuedani tezz[i]
ḫatukiškizzi
n=aš EGIR-pa tuk ANA ÍD wappūwašš=a DGUL-šašš=a DINGIR.MAḪ-aš uizzi
antuḫšan kuiēš šamnieškanz[i]

## Original Translation

Du aber, Fluss, hast dir Reinigung, Leben(skraft) für die Nachkommenschaft (und) Wohlstand genommen.
(Wenn jemand) jemandem etwas sagt,
(und dies ihm) auf Dauer schrecklich ist,
so kommt er zu dir, dem Fluss, und zu den Gulš-Göttinnen und den MAḪ-Göttinnen des Ufers,
diejenigen, die den Menschen erschaffen.

## English Translation

But you, river, have cleaned, life (satellite) for the offspring (and) prosperity.
(If someone) says something to someone
(and this to him) is terrible in the long run
So he comes to you, the river, and the Gulš goddesses and the Maḫ goddesses of the bank,
Those who create people.

## Links

- [Textcorpora](https://www.hethport.uni-wuerzburg.de/txhet_besrit/partitur.php?xst=CTH%20434.1&prgr=%C2%A7%203%27&lg=DE&ed=F.%20Fuscagni)
