**ID:** 1653

**Genre:** Rituale

**CTH:** 480.1 - Die zweite Tafel des Rituals von Šamuḫa

**Publication:** KUB 29.7

**Lines:** Vs. 4-5

**Paragraph:** 1

**Wordform:** idālawanni

**Semantics:** evil

**Emotional domain:** ENMITY

**Lemma:** idālu-

## Context

mān=wa dUTU-ŠI kuiški ANA PĀNI DINGIR-LIM idālawanni memian ḫarzi "If anyone has spoken evil (about) the Majesty before the Deity"

## Syllabic context

EGIR-ŠU-ma KIR14-ŠU ḫa-at-ta-an-za A-NA PA-NI KÁ É.DINGIR-LI[M t]i-i-e-zi
nu ḫu-u-da-a-ak DINGIR-LUM IŠ-TU ŠA LUGAL ḫu-u-ma-an-da-a-aš ḫu-u-ur-di-ia-aš ⌈ud⌉-da-ni-i ga-an-ga-ta-a-iz-zi
Ú-NU-UT LUGAL-ma EGIR-an Ú-UL ku-wa-at-qa [ḫa]r-kán-zi
ŠA DUTU-ŠI-kán im-ma KAxU-az an-da a-pé-ni-iš-ša-an me-mi-iš-kán-zi
[ma]-⌈a⌉-an-wa DUTU-Š[I] ku-iš-ki ⌈A-NA PA-NI⌉ DINGIR-LIM i-da-a-la-u-an-ni me-mi-an ḫar-zi
nu-za DINGIR-LU[M] a-pé-e-ez ud-⌈da⌉-a-na-az pár-ku-iš e-eš
DUTU-ŠI-ia A-NA PA-NI DINGIR-LIM pár-ku-iš e-eš[-t]u ¬¬¬

## Master context

EGIR-ŠU=ma KIR14=ŠU ḫattanza ANA PĀNI KÁ É.DINGIR-LI[M t]īezi
nu ḫūdāk DINGIR-LUM IŠTU ŠA LUGAL ḫūmandāš ḫūrdiyaš uddanī gangatāizzi
UNŪT LUGAL=ma EGIR-an UL kuwatqa [ḫa]rkanzi
ŠA DUTU-ŠI=kan imma KAxU-az anda apeniššan memiškanzi
[m]ān=wa DUTU-Š[I] kuiški ANA PĀNI DINGIR-LIM idālawanni memian ḫarzi
nu=za DINGIR-LU[M] apēz uddānaz parkuiš ēš
DUTU-ŠI=ya ANA PĀNI DINGIR-LIM parkuiš ēš[t]u

## Original translation

Danach aber [st]ellt sich die „Ihre-Nase-ist-durchstochen“ vor den Eingang des Tempels.
Und eilig behandelt sie die Gottheit mit der
Das Utensil des Königs aber [hä]lt man keineswegs hinten.
Stattdessen verkündet man (die Anwesenheit) der Majestät dazu immer wieder wie erwähnt mündlich.
„[We]nn irgendjemand (über) die Majestä[t] vor der Gottheit im Schlechten gesprochen hat,
sollst du, Gotthei[t], von jener Angelegenheit rein sein,
und die Majestät so[l]l vor der Gottheit rein sein.“

## English translation

After that, however, the "your-nose-actual penalty" is in front of the entrance to the temple.
And it is in a hurry to treat the deity with the
The king's utensil, however, is by no means at the back.
Instead, the Majesty (the presence) of the Majesty is announced again and again as mentioned.
"[We] nn (about) the Majestä [t] before the deity spoke in bad
Should you, Gotthei [t], be pure by that matter,
And the majesty so [l] l be pure before the deity. "

## Links

- [Textcorpora](https://www.hethport.uni-wuerzburg.de/txhet_besrit/partitur.php?xst=CTH%20480.1&prgr=%C2%A71&lg=DE&ed=S.%20G%C3%B6rke%20%E2%80%93%20S.%20Melzer)
