# 1940 · MERCY · lazzi- — KUB 17.28 — Ro. iii 9

| Field | Value |
|---|---|
| ID | 1940 |
| Genre | Rituale |
| CTH | 458.2 - Rituale contro le cattive amicizie |
| Publication | KUB 17.28 |
| Lines | Ro. iii 9 |
| Paragraph | 6 |
| Wordform | SIG5-in |
| Semantics | good |
| Emotional Domain | MERCY |
| Lemma | lazzi- |

## Context

nu=wa=kán dUTU-i parranda SIG5-in memiški "continue to speak well of me to the Sun god!"

## Syllabic Context

UDU-kán ar-⌈kán⌉-zi
šu-up-pa UZUNÍG.GIG UZUGABA SAG.DU-[Ṣ]U GÌRMEŠ PA-NI GIŠBANŠUR da-a-i
UZUNÍG.⌈GIGḪI.A⌉ za-nu-an-zi
NINDA.KUR4.RAḪI.A pár-⌈ši⌉-ia-an-da
nu ma-al-ti
dUTU-i ku-iš pí-ra-an ar-ta
nu-wa-kán dUTU-i pár-ra-an-da SIG5-in me-mi-iš-ki
2 NINDA.KUR4.RA pár-ši-ia
na-aš-kán A-NA GIŠBANŠUR-i da-a-i
še-er-ra-aš-ša-an UZUNÍG.GIG da-a-i
KAŠ.GEŠTIN BAL-⌈an⌉-ti
UZUÌ-ma za-nu-wa-an-zi
na-at ar-ḫa a-da-an-zi
nu 3-ŠU a-ku-wa-an-zi
nu GIŠBANŠUR ša-ra-a da-an-zi ¬¬¬

## Master Context

UDU=kan arkánzi
šuppa UZUNÍG.GIG UZUGABA Ro. III 5 SAG.DU-[Ṣ]U GÌRMEŠ PANI GIŠBANŠUR dāi
UZUNÍG.GIGḪI.A zanuanzi
NINDA.KUR4.RAḪI.A paršiyanda
nu malti
dUTU-i kuiš piran arta
nu=wa=kán dUTU-i parranda SIG5-in memiški
2 NINDA.KUR4.RA paršiya
n=aš=kán A-NA GIŠBANŠUR-i dāi
šēr=at=šan UZUNÍG.GIG dāi
KAŠ.GEŠTIN BAL-anti
UZUÌ=ma zanuwanzi
n=at arḫa adanzi
nu 3-ŠU akuwanzi
nu GIŠBANŠUR šarā danzi

## Original Translation

Fanno a pezzi la pecora
Ed egli pone innanzi alla tavola la carne cruda, il fegato, il petto, la testa e i piedi.
Si cucina il fegato
e si spezzano le forme di pane.
Pone una forma di pane a terra
e recita:
„Te (la tavola) che sei innanzi al dio Sole
continua a parlare bene di me al dio Sole!“
Egli spezza due forme di pane
e le pone sulla tavola
e sopra vi pone il fegato,
liba bevanda
e si cucina il grasso.
Mangiano
e bevono per tre volte
Prendono la tavola (e se ne vanno)

## English Translation

They tear the sheep
And he puts the raw meat, liver, chest, head and feet before the table.
The liver is cooked
And the forms of bread are broken.
It puts a form of bread on the ground
and reads:
„You (the table) that you are before the sun god
Keep talking well of me to the sun god! "
He breaks two forms of bread
and puts them on the table
and above the liver puts it,
Liba drink
And the fat is cooked.
They eat
and drink three times
Take the table (and leave)

## Links

- [Textcorpora](https://www.hethport.uni-wuerzburg.de/txhet_besrit/partitur.php?xst=CTH%20458.2&prgr=%C2%A7%206&lg=IT&ed=G.%20Torri)
