**ID:** 1754

**Genre:** Rituale

**CTH:** 456.2.1 - Ein Flussritual der Ammā, MUNUS.ŠU.GI des Sonnengottes, für die Reinigung des Ritualherrn

**Publication:** KUB 36.83

**Lines:** Vs. i 11-12

**Paragraph:** 6''

**Wordform:** genzuwali

**Semantics:** humiliation

**Emotional domain:** FEAR

**Lemma:** genzu-

**Full location:** KUB 36.83 Vs. i 11-15

## Context

n=ašta kāša EGIR-pa tuk ANA dUTU LUGAL ŠAMÊ genzuwali uit "Behold, he has come to you, the Sun God, the King of heaven, with a humble spirit"

## Full context

na-aš-ta ka-⌈a⌉-ša EGIR-pa tu-uk A-NA dUTU LUGAL ŠA-ME-E ⌈ge⌉-en-zu-wa-li ú-it
 dUTU-uš-za ne-pí-ši LUGAL-uš
 [DUMU.]LÚ.U19.LU-ma-za LÚSIPA-aš zi-⌈ik⌉
 nu ŠA DUMU.LÚ.U19.LU DI-NA-A-A[M?] ⌈zi⌉-ik LUGAL ŠA-ME-E ḫa-an-na-aš-ki-ši
 nu ku-iš ku-e-ez dam[-(me-eš-ḫa-an-za) ]
 [n]a-an zi-ik-pát dUTU LUGAL ŠA-ME-E ḫu-iš-nu-uš-ki-[ši] ¬¬¬

## Translation

Behold, he has come to you, O sun-god, King of heaven, in a humble spirit .
 You (are) the sun god, the king in heaven,
 but you (are) the shepherd for mankind,
 You, O King of heaven, judge the cause of mankind.
 Whoever is oppressed by someone/something [?],
 You, O King of heaven, keep it alive forever.

## Syllabic context

na-aš-ta ka-⌈a⌉-ša EGIR-pa tu-uk A-NA DUTU LUGAL ŠA-ME-E ⌈ge⌉-en-zu-wa-li ú-it
DUTU-uš-za ne-pí-ši LUGAL-uš
[DUMU.]LÚ.U19.LU-ma-za LÚSIPA-aš zi-⌈ik⌉
nu ŠA DUMU.LÚ.U19.LU DI-NA-A-A[M?] ⌈zi⌉-ik LUGAL ŠA-ME-E ḫa-an-na-aš-ki-ši
nu ku-iš ku-e-ez dam[- …]
[n]a-an zi-ik-pát DUTU LUGAL ŠA-ME-E ḫu-iš-nu-uš-ki-[ši] ¬¬¬

## Master context

n=ašta kāša EGIR-pa tuk ANA DUTU LUGAL ŠAMÊ genzuwali uit
DUTU-uš=za nepiši LUGAL-uš
[DUMU.]LÚ.U19.LU=ma=za LÚSIPA-aš zik
nu ŠA DUMU.LÚ.U19.LU DIḪI.A zik LUGAL ŠAMÊ ḫannaškiši
nu kuiš kuēz dammešḫanza
[n]=an zik=pat DUTU LUGAL ŠAMÊ ḫuišnuški[ši]

## Original translation

Siehe, er ist zu dir, dem Sonnengott, dem König des Himmels, in demutsvoller Gesinnung gekommen.
Du (bist) der Sonnengott, der König im Himmel,
du (bist) aber der Hirte für die Menschheit,
du, König des Himmels, entscheidest die Rechtssache der Menschheit.
Wer von jemandem/etwas bedrängt wird [?],
gerade du, König des Himmels, erhältst ihn ständig lebendig.

## English translation

See, he has come to you, the sun god, the king of heaven, in a humble attitude.
You (are) the sun god, the king in heaven,
you (are) the shepherd for humanity,
You, king of heaven, decide the case of humanity.
Who is brewed by someone/something [?],
You, king of heaven in particular, get him alive.

## Addenda

According to HW 2 A, 447a, genzuwali is an attribute of D UTU

## Links

- [Textcorpora](https://www.hethport.uni-wuerzburg.de/txhet_besrit/partitur.php?xst=CTH%20456.2.1&prgr=%C2%A7%206%27%27&lg=DE&ed=F.%20Fuscagni)
