# 1757 · FEAR · ḫatuk- — KBo 4.2 — Vs. i 16

| Field | Value |
|---|---|
| ID | 1757 |
| Genre | Rituale |
| CTH | 398 - Das Ritual des Auguren Ḫuwarlu |
| Publication | KBo 4.2 |
| Lines | Vs. i 16 |
| Paragraph | 3 |
| Wordform | ḫatugauš |
| Semantics | terror |
| Emotional Domain | FEAR |
| Lemma | ḫatuk- |

## Context

ḫatugauš MUŠENḪI.A kištanutten "Wipe out the terrible birds!"

## Full Location

KBo 4.2 Vs. i 13-18

## Full Context

nu LÚMUŠEN.DÙ MUNUSŠU.GI-ia ki-iš-ša-an me-mi-ia-an-zi
 ka-a-ša-wa-an-na-aš ⌈pí⌉-i-e-er DINGIRMEŠ ne-pí-ša-az LÚMEŠ GIŠGIDRU
 it-tén-wa-kán
 IŠ-TU É.GAL-LIM kal-la-ar INIM-tar pa-ra-a šu-u-wa-at-tén
 nu-wa i-it-tén
 ⌈ḫa-tu⌉-ga-uš MUŠENḪI.A ki-iš-ta!-nu-ut-te-en
 nu-kán ke-e NUMUN[ḪI.]⌈A⌉ ma-aḫ-ḫa-an ki-iš-ta-ri
 kal-la-a-ra-ia>ra-ia<-kán ud-da-a-ar ḫa-tu-ga-ú-ša MUŠENḪI.A QA-TAM-MA ki-iš-ta-ru ¬¬¬

## Translation

And the augur and the old woman say as follows:
 “Now the gods have sent us heralds from heaven.
 Go!
 Drive the evil affair out of the palace!
 Go!
 Exterminate the terrible birds!
 And as these seeds die out,
 the evil words and the terrible birds shall also be extinguished!"

## Syllabic Context

nu LÚMUŠEN.DÙ MUNUSŠU.GI-ia ki-iš-ša-an me-mi-ia-an-zi
ka-a-ša-wa-an-na-aš ⌈pí⌉-i-e-er DINGIRMEŠ ne-pí-ša-az LÚMEŠ GIŠGIDRU
it-tén-wa-kán
IŠ-TU É.GAL-LIM kal-la-ar INIM-tar pa-ra-a šu-u-wa-at-tén
nu-wa i-it-tén
⌈ḫa-tu⌉-ga-uš MUŠENḪI.A ki-iš-ta!-nu-ut-te-en
nu-kán ke-e NUMUN[ḪI.]⌈A⌉ ma-aḫ-ḫa-an ki-iš-ta-ri
kal-la-a-ra-ia>ra-ia<-kán ud-da-a-ar ḫa-tu-ga-ú-ša MUŠENḪI.A QA-TAM-MA ki-iš-ta-ru ¬¬¬

## Master Context

nu LÚMUŠEN.DÙ MUNUSŠU.GI=ya kiššan memiyanzi
kāša=wa=nnaš pīēr DINGIRMEŠ nepišaz LÚMEŠ GIŠGIDRU
itten=wa=kan
IŠTU É.GAL-LIM kallar INIM-tar parā šūwatten
nu=wa ītten
ḫatugauš MUŠENḪI.A kištanutten
nu=kan kē NUMUN[ḪI.]A maḫḫan kištari
kallara=ya=kan uddār ḫatugauš=a MUŠENḪI.A QĀTAMMA kištaru ¬¬¬

## Original Translation

Und der Augur und die Alte sprechen folgendermaßen:
„Jetzt haben uns die Götter vom Himmel die Herolde geschickt.
Geht!
Stoßt die unheilvolle Angelegenheit aus dem Palast heraus!
Geht!
Löscht die schrecklichen Vögel aus!
Und wie diese Samen erlöschen,
sollen auch die unheilvollen Worte und die schrecklichen Vögel ebenso erlöschen!“

## English Translation

And the Augur and the old speak as follows:
“Now the gods have sent us the herald from heaven.
Goes!
Keep the ominous matter out of the palace!
Goes!
Demolishes the terrible birds!
And how these seeds go out,
Should also go out the ominous words and the terrible birds! "

## Links

- [Textcorpora](https://www.hethport.uni-wuerzburg.de/txhet_besrit/partitur.php?xst=CTH%20398&prgr=%C2%A7%203&lg=DE&ed=D.%20Bawanypeck)
