**ID:** 1740

**Genre:** Rituale

**CTH:** 401.2 - Ritual mit Beschwörungen ähnlich zu CTH 400

**Publication:** KBo 13.131

**Lines:** Vs. ii 14'

**Paragraph:** 8'

**Wordform:** nāḫi

**Semantics:** fear

**Emotional domain:** FEAR

**Lemma:** naḫḫ-

**Full location:** KBo 13.131 Vs. ii 14'-20’

## Context

lē=ya=aš nāḫi “Do not fear them!"

## Full context

[nu-mu-uš-ša-an šu-me-eš-š]a ḫar-ap-tén
 UM-MA [P]ÚḪI.A
 le-e-ia-aš na-a-ḫi
 [ú-i-e-eš-ta ḫar-ap-pu-u]-⌈e⌉-ni
 BIL.ZA.ZA KA[×U]-za da-a-i
 [ … kat-ta pa-aš]-zi
 ḫar-zi-ia-al-la-aš-ša-at [ša-ap-pu-it ...]
 [B]IL.ZA.ZA-at-k[á]n ḫal-lu-u-wa-aš [AḪI.A-aš ...]
 [Í]D-at ⌈a⌉-ru-ni pé-da-i
 [ … ] xḪI.A [(x)] GAM-an-da pé-da-i
 [ … ]-⌈x-ma⌉ EGI[R-pa] UL ú-iz-zi ¬¬¬

## Translation

[And] [you] also shall stand by [me]!
 The sources say this:
 “Do not fear them!
 [We will stand by you]!
 The frog takes with the mouth,
 [... he swallows down ] .
 The ḫarziyalla- [...] it [with the šappu- ].
 The [frog] [...] it to the deep [waters].
 The river makes it to the sea.
 […] … makes it down.
 [...] ... it will not come back."

## Syllabic context

[nu-mu-uš-ša-an šu-me-eš-š]a ḫar-ap-tén
UM-MA [P]ÚḪI.A
le-e-ia-aš na-a-ḫi
[ú-i-e-eš-ta ḫar-ap-pu-u]-⌈e⌉-ni
BIL.ZA.ZA KA[×U]-za da-a-i
[… kat-ta pa-aš]-zi
ḫar-zi-ia-al-la-aš-ša-at [ša-ap-pu-it ...]
[B]IL.ZA.ZA-at-k[á]n ḫal-lu-u-wa-aš [AḪI.A-aš ...]
[Í]D-at ⌈a⌉-ru-ni pé-da-i
[…] xḪI.A [(x)] GAM-an-da pé-da-i
[… ]-⌈x-ma⌉ EGI[R-pa] UL ú-iz-zi ¬¬¬

## Master context

[nu=mu=ššan šumešš]=a ḫarapten
UMMA [P]ÚḪI.A
lē=iaš nāḫi
[wiēš=ta ḫarappuw]eni
BIL.ZA.ZA KA[×U]-za dāi
[… katta paš]zi
ḫarziyallašš=at [šappuit ...]
[B]IL.ZA.ZA=at=k[a]n ḫallūwaš [AḪI.A-aš ...]
[Í]D=at aruni pedai
[…] xḪI.A [(x)] GAM-anda pedai
[… ]-x-ma EGI[R-pa] UL uizzi

## Original translation

[Und] auch [ihr] sollt [mir] beistehen!“
Folgendermaßen (sagen) die [Q]uellen:
„Fürchte sie nicht!
[Wir werden Dir beiste]hen!
Der Frosch nimmt mit dem M[und],
[...
Der
Der [Fr]osch [...] es zu den tiefen [
Der [Fl]uss schafft es ins Meer.
[…] … schafft es hinab.
[...] ... kommt es nicht zu[rück].“

## English translation

[And] also [you] should assist me! "
As follows (say) the [Q] uellen:
"Don't be afraid!
[We will be yours!
The frog takes with the M [and],
[...
The
The [fr] osch [...] it to the depths [
The [fl] USS makes it into the sea.
[…] ... make it down.
[...] ... it does not happen [back]. "

## Links

- [Textcorpora](https://www.hethport.uni-wuerzburg.de/txhet_besrit/partitur.php?xst=CTH%20401.2&prgr=%C2%A78%27&lg=DE&ed=S.%20Melzer%20%E2%80%93%20S.%20G%C3%B6rke)
