# 1546 · DISTRESS · wiyai- — KUB 39.7+ — Rs. iii 38

| Field | Value |
|---|---|
| ID | 1546 |
| Genre | Rituale |
| CTH | 450.1.1.4 - Funerary Ritual. Day 12-13 |
| Publication | KUB 39.7+ |
| Lines | Rs. iii 38 |
| Paragraph | 35' |
| Wordform | weškiuwan |
| Semantics | wail |
| Emotional Domain | DISTRESS |
| Lemma | wiyai- |

## Context

MUNUS.MEŠtapdaraš wēškiuwan dāi "Taptara-women begin to wail"

## Syllabic Context

nu-uš-ša-an [nam-ma GIŠga-pa-nu-wa-aš š]e-er Ì.DÙG.GA la-ḫu-u-wa-an-zi
nu nam-ma ak-kán-ta-aš ZI[-an 3]-ŠU e-ku-zi
LÚNAR GIŠ DINANNA.GAL QA-TAM-MA S[ÌR-R]U
LÚ.MEŠALAM.ZU9 a-ḫa-a QA-TAM-MA ḫal-zi-an-zi
me-m[i-]an QA-TAM-MA ḫu-uš-te-eš-kán-zi
3 NINDA.GUR4.RA KU7 pár-ši-ia
na-an-ša-an ak-kán-da<-aš> ZI-aš A-NA NINDA.ERÍNMEŠ ti-an-zi
MUNUS.MEŠtap-da-ra-aš ú-e-eš-ki-u-wa-an da-a-i
nam-ma-an ka-ru-uš-ši-ia-nu-u-wa-an-zi ¬¬¬

## Master Context

nu=ššan [namma GIŠgapanuwaš š]er Ì.DÙG.GA laḫūwanzi
nu namma akkantaš ZI[-an 3]-ŠU ekuzi
LÚNAR GIŠ DINANNA.GAL QĀTAMMA S[ÌR-R]U
LÚ.MEŠALAM.ZU9 aḫā QĀTAMMA ḫalzianzi
mem[i]an QĀTAMMA ḫušteškanzi
3 NINDA.GUR4.RA KU7 paršiya
n=an=šan akkandaš ZI-aš ANA NINDA.ERÍNMEŠ tianzi
MUNUS.MEŠtapdaraš wēškiuwan dāi
namma=an karuššiyanūwanzi

## Original Translation

[Then] they pour fine oil [on the grapevine].
Then he drinks [thre]e times the S[oul] of the deceased.
The singer sings in the same manner (with the accompaniment of) the great Inanna-instrument.
The performers exclaim 'aha!' in the same manner
while whispering the word in the same manner.
He breaks three sweet thick loaves.
They put them on the soldier loaf to the soul of the deceased.
Then they make them silent.

## English Translation

[Then] they pour fine oil [on the grapevine].
Then he drinks [thre]e times the S[oul] of the deceased.
The singer sings in the same manner (with the accompaniment of) the great Inanna-instrument.
The performers exclaim 'aha!' in the same manner
while whispering the word in the same manner.
He breaks three sweet thick loaves.
They put them on the soldier loaf to the soul of the deceased.
Then they make them silent.

## Links

- [Textcorpora](https://www.hethport.uni-wuerzburg.de/txhet_besrit/partitur.php?xst=CTH%20450.1.1.4&prgr=%C2%A7%2035%27&lg=EN&ed=M.%20Kape%C5%82u%C5%9B)
