**ID:** 1518

**Genre:** Rituale

**CTH:** 479.2.1 - Die zweite Tafel des Rituals von Kizzuwatna

**Publication:** KUB 30.31

**Lines:** Vs. i 49!-50!

**Paragraph:** 6

**Wordform:** išḫaḫru

**Semantics:** tears

**Emotional domain:** DISTRESS

**Lemma:** išḫaḫru

**Full location:** KUB 30.31 Vs. i 49!-50!

## Context

ANA DINGIR.MEŠ=ma=kan maḫḫan išḫaḫru danzi "But how to take away the tears of the gods"

## Full context

UD.19.KAM QA-TI
 A-NA DINGIRMEŠ-˹ma˺-kán ma-aḫ-ḫa-˹an˺ iš-ḫa-aḫ-ru da-an-zi
 na-˹at˺ ha-an-ti DUB.2.KAM

## Translation

The 19th day is over.
 But how one takes away the tears of the gods,
 (is) that separately the second tablet.

## Syllabic context

I-NA UD.18.KAM-ma-˹aš-ša˺-an DINGIRMEŠ PA-NI ÍD NA4ni-it-ri-az wa-ar-pa-an-˹zi˺
a-pé-e-ia-az wa-ar-pa-an-zi
Ú-NU-TEMEŠ-ia a-ar-ra-an-zi
UD.18.KAM QA-TI
I-NA UD.19.˹KAM˺-ma-aš-ša-an nam-ma DINGIRMEŠ ˹PA˺-NI ÍD wa-ar-pa-an-zi
˹nam˺-ma-aš-ma-aš wa-ar-pu-wa-aš SÍSKUR pí-˹an˺-zi
UD.19.KAM QA-TI
A-NA DINGIRMEŠ-˹ma˺-kán ma-aḫ-ḫa-˹an˺ iš-ḫa-aḫ-ru da-an-zi
na-˹at˺ ha-an-ti DUB.2.KAM
nu-uš-˹ma-ša˺-at ka-a-aš-ma up-pa-aḫ-ḫu-un¬¬¬

## Master context

INA UD.18.KAM=ma=ššan DINGIRMEŠ PĀNI ÍD NA4nitriaz warpanzi
apē=ya=z(a) warpanzi
UNŪTEMEŠ=ya arranzi
UD.18.KAM QATI
INA UD.19.KAM=ma=ššan namma DINGIRMEŠ PĀNI ÍD warpanzi
namma=šmaš warpuwaš SÍSKUR pianzi
UD.19.KAM QATI
A-NA DINGIRMEŠ=ma=kan maḫḫan išḫaḫru danzi
n=at hanti DUB.2.KAM
nu=šmaš=at kāšma uppaḫḫun

## Original translation

Am 18. Tag aber wäscht man die Götter(statuen) vor dem Fluss mit
Auch jene (die anderen Beteiligten) waschen sich.
Auch die Utensilien wäscht man.
Der 18. Tag ist beendet.
Am 19. Tag aber wäscht man wieder die Götter(statuen) vor dem Fluss.
Ferner gibt man ihnen (den Götter) das Opfer des Waschens.
Der 19. Tag ist beendet.
Wie man den Göttern aber die Tränen wegnimmt,
(ist) das gesondert die zweite Tafel.
Ich schickte sie euch gerade.

## English translation

On the 18th day you wash the gods (statues) in front of the river
Those (the other participants) also wash themselves.
The utensils are also washed.
The 18th day is over.
On the 19th day you wash the gods (statues) in front of the river again.
They are also given the victim of washing (the gods).
The 19th day is over.
How to take the tears away from the gods,
(is) the second table separately.
I just sent it to you.

## Links

- [Textcorpora](https://www.hethport.uni-wuerzburg.de/txhet_besrit/partitur.php?xst=CTH%20479.2.1&prgr=%C2%A76&lg=DE&ed=S.%20%C3%9Cnal)
