**ID:** 1514

**Genre:** Rituale

**CTH:** 457.7.1 - Die Reise der Seele in die Unterwelt

**Publication:** KUB 43.60

**Lines:** Vs. i 21

**Paragraph:** 2

**Wordform:** išḫaḫruanza

**Semantics:** tears

**Emotional domain:** DISTRESS

**Lemma:** išḫaḫru

**Full location:** KUB 43.60 Vs. i 16-25

## Context

annaš DINGIR-LIM-aš išḫaḫruanza "The Mother Goddess (is) weeping"

## Full context

ku-i-ta ne-pí-ša-az-ma
 na-at ta-pa-ka-li-ia<-aš> ḫa-ra-ašMUŠEN kad!-du-ut ú-da-ú
 i-la-li-an-za kad-du-uš-mi-it wa-al-ḫa-an-za e-eš-du
 MÁŠ.GAL-ša-an ša-ap-pu-it wa-al-aḫ-du
 UDU.NITA-ša-an SIḪI.A-an-da wa-al-aḫ-du
 an-na-ša-an UDU.NITA ti-it-ti-it-te-et wa-al-aḫ-du
 an-na-aš DINGIR-LIM-aš iš-ḫa-aḫ-ru-an-za
 na-aš iš-ḫa-aḫ-ru-it wa-al-ḫa-an-za
 nu-uš-ši-iš-ša-an ku-e a-aš-šu-u ⌈9⌉-an-da-aš ḫa-ap-pí-eš-na-aš še-er ḫa-aš-ša-an
 ne [w]a-al-ḫa-an-za e-eš-du
 ZI-an-za-ma i-ia-at-ni-ia-an-za [ḫa-ap-p]í-⌈eš⌉-n[i]-⌈an-za⌉
 nu-⌈uš-ši-kán⌉ le-⌈e⌉ a-ri-eš-kat-ta ¬¬¬

## Translation

And that which is out of heaven,
 the eagle that catches the hare shall bring it in his claws.
 May the desired one be struck with his claws.
 Let the goat strike him with his hoofs;
 may the ram strike him with his horns;
 may the mother sheep strike him with her snout.
 The Mother Goddess (is) weeping
 (and) she (is) afflicted with tears.
 Whatever good is born/produced for them on (their) nine parts of the body,
 may she be struck with respect to them (i.e. the body parts?).
 But the soul (is) luxuriant (and) divided into (its) body parts.
 No oracle shall be consulted for them.

## Syllabic context

ku-i-ta ne-pí-ša-az-ma
na-at ta-pa-ka-li-ia<-aš> ḫa-ra-ašMUŠEN kad!-du-ut ú-da-ú
i-la-li-an-za kad-du-uš-mi-it wa-al-ḫa-an-za e-eš-du
MÁŠ.GAL-ša-an ša-ap-pu-it wa-al-aḫ-du
UDU.NITA-ša-an SIḪI.A-an-da wa-al-aḫ-du
an-na-ša-an UDU.NITA ti-it-ti-it-te-et wa-al-aḫ-du
an-na-aš DINGIR-LIM-aš iš-ḫa-aḫ-ru-an-za
na-aš iš-ḫa-aḫ-ru-it wa-al-ḫa-an-za
nu-uš-ši-iš-ša-an ku-e a-aš-šu-u ⌈9⌉-an-da-aš ḫa-ap-pí-eš-na-aš še-er ḫa-aš-ša-an
ne [w]a-al-ḫa-an-za e-eš-du
ZI-an-za-ma i-ia-at-ni-ia-an-za [ḫa-ap-p]í-⌈eš⌉-n[i]-⌈an-za⌉
nu-⌈uš-ši-kán⌉ le-⌈e⌉ a-ri-eš-kat-ta ¬¬¬

## Master context

kuit=a nepišaz=ma
n=at tapakaliyaš ḫarašMUŠEN kaddut udau
ilalianza kaddu(t)=šmit walḫanza ēšdu
MÁŠ.GAL-š=an šappuit walaḫdu
UDU.NITA-š=an SIḪI.A-anda walaḫdu
annaš=an UDU.NITA tittittet walaḫdu
annaš DINGIR-LIM-aš išḫaḫruanza
n=aš išḫaḫruit walḫanza
nu=šši=ššan kue āššū 9-andaš ḫappešnaš šer ḫaššan
n=e [w]alḫanza ēšdu
ZI-anza=ma iyatniyanza [ḫapp]ešn[i]anza
nu=šši=kan lē areškatta

## Original translation

Und was aber aus dem Himmel (ist),
der Hasen ergreifende Adler soll es mit seinen Klauen herbringen.
Möge der Gewünschte mit seinen Klauen geschlagen werden.
Möge der Ziegenbock ihn mit den Hufen schlagen;
möge der Widder ihn mit den Hörnern schlagen;
möge das Mutter-Schaf ihn mit der Schnauze schlagen.
Die Muttergöttin (ist) weinend
(und) sie (ist) mit Tränen befallen.
Was Gutes für sie auf (ihren) neun Körperteilen geboren/erzeugt (ist),
möge sie in Bezug auf sie (d.h. die Körperteile
Die Seele aber (ist) üppig (und) in (ihre) Körperteile [zer]legt.
Für sie soll keine Orakelanfrage gemacht werden.

## English translation

And what from heaven (is),
The rabbit moving eagle should bring it with his claws.
May the desired one be beaten with his claws.
May the billy goat hit him with his hooves;
May the ram beat him with the horns;
May the mother-bare it with the snout.
The mother goddess (is) crying
(and) they (is) affected with tears.
What good for you on (your) nine parts of the body (is), is)
May it in relation to them (i.e. the parts of the body
But the soul (is) lush (and) in (its) parts of the body [zer].
No oracle request should be made for them.

## Links

- [Textcorpora](https://www.hethport.uni-wuerzburg.de/txhet_besrit/partitur.php?xst=CTH%20457.7.1&prgr=%C2%A7%202&lg=DE&ed=F.%20Fuscagni)
